
Background::Main article:  Timeline of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019 Phylogenetic analyses  estimate that SARS-CoV-2 first arose in October or November 2019,  evolving from a coronavirus that infects wild bats and spreading to humans through an intermediary wildlife host.  While later research determined that a first patient began to show symptoms as early as 1 December 2019, a cluster of cases was not discovered until the end of December.  Retrospective study would later indicate that 266 people had been infected before the beginning of 2020.  On 31 December, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission released a briefing on its website about early signs of a pneumonia outbreak in the city.  International news agencies began to report on the outbreak that day,  as did the WHO and the US CDC. 

1 January::Xinhua News  reported that the  Huanan Seafood Market  was closed on 1 January 2020 for cleaning and disinfection. US CDC Director  Robert Redfield  was briefed about the severity of the virus from his Chinese counterpart  George F. Gao  when he was on vacation with his family according to reports, what he heard  rattled him . The WHO Newsroom stated that  the causal agent has not yet been identified or confirmed , and noted it had requested further information from the Chinese authorities to assess the risk. 

2 January::A later, February study of patients admitted to the hospital in Wuhan between 16 December 2019 and 2 January 2020 was able to identify, during this time period, a total of 41 patients had contracted the novel coronavirus, 27 (66 ) with direct exposure to Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market.  All 41 patients were subsequently relocated from the hospital they had originally been diagnosed in to the Jinyintan Hospital in Wuhan, China.  WHO declared that its three concerned levels (China country office, Regional Office for the Western Pacific and headquarters) have been working together to respond to the outbreak. 

3 January::The Chinese government formally notified the US of the outbreak. At a White House briefing in 20 March, Health and Human Services Secretary  Alex Azar  said officials had been alerted to the initial reports of the virus by discussions between CDC director  Robert Redfield  and Chinese CDC Director Gao on 3 January. Mr. Azar also told his chief of staff to make sure that the National Security Council was aware that  this (the outbreak) is a very big deal .  The BBC ran its first story on the outbreak. Health authorities in Wuhan reported 44 cases, a big jump from the 27 reported on Tuesday. Eleven of the 44 were seriously ill, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said, although there had been no reported deaths to date. The health of the 121 close contacts of the cases was being monitored. Chinese scientists at the National Institute of Viral Disease Control and Prevention (IVDC) ruled out the possibilities for 26 common respiratory pathogens, including influenza A and B virus, parainfluenza virus, adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus metapneumovirus rhinovirus, enterovirus, and other common respiratory viruses. They determined the genetic sequence of the novel  -genus coronaviruses (naming it '2019-nCoV') from specimens collected from patients in Wuhan, China, and three distinct strains were established. China's  National Health Commission  (NHC) ordered institutions to not publish any information that related to the disease, and ordered labs to either transfer all samples to designated testing institutions, or destroy them. The order did not list any designated testing institutions. Li Wenliang , a Wuhan ophthalmologist, was summoned to the Wuhan Public Security Bureau where he was told to sign an official confession and admonition letter promising to cease spreading  false   rumors  regarding the coronavirus. In the letter, he was reprimanded for  making false comments by announcing the confirmation of 7 cases of SARS at the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market  that had  severely disturbed the social order . The letter stated,  We solemnly warn you: If you keep being stubborn, with such impertinence, and continue this illegal activity, you will be brought to justice is that understood  Li signed the confession writing:  Yes, I understand. 

4 January::The United Nations agency activated its incident-management system at the country, regional, and global level and was standing ready to launch a broader response if it was needed. The WHO's regional office in Manila said in Twitter posts Saturday:  China has reported to WHO regarding a cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, Hubei Province. The Govt has also met with our country office, and updated  WHO on the situation. Govt actions to control the incident have been instituted and investigations into the cause are ongoing.  The US CDC Director Redfield, following up the previous day's contact, emailed the Chinese CDC Director, Gao, formally offering to send US experts to China to investigate the outbreak. The head of the University of Hong Kong's Center for Infection, Ho Pak-Leung, warned that the city should implement the strictest possible monitoring system for a mystery new viral pneumonia that infected dozens of people on the mainland, as it was highly possible that the illness was spreading from human to human. The microbiologist also warned that there could be a surge in cases during the upcoming Chinese New Year. Ho said he hoped the mainland would release more details as soon as possible about the patients infected with the disease, such as their medical history, to help experts analyze the illness and to allow for more effective preventive measures to be put in place. The Singapore Ministry of Health said on Saturday, 4 January, that it had been notified of the first suspected case of the  mystery Wuhan virus  in Singapore, involving a three-year-old girl from China who had pneumonia and a travel history to the Chinese city of Wuhan.  On 5 January, the Singapore Ministry of Health released a press statement stating that the earlier suspected case was not linked to the pneumonia cluster in Wuhan and was also tested negative for the SARS and MERS-CoV. On 4 January, journalist Helen Branswell wrote that, while social media platforms suggested that China was not being transparent about the outbreak, scientists disagreed. Virologist Ralph Baric commented,  They have many of the best virologists in the world there that are working on this. 

5 January::The number of suspected cases reached 59 with seven in a critical condition. All were quarantined and local medical officials commenced the monitoring of 163 of their contacts. At this time, there had been no reported cases of human-to-human transmission or presentations in healthcare workers. Zhang Yong-Zhen , a virologist at Fudan University, deposits the second known complete genome (Wuhan-Hu-1) in sequence database  GenBank .  The sequence record was initially embargoed and thus not visible to the public. Early investigations into the cause of the pneumonia ruled out  seasonal flu , SARS,  MERS , and  bird flu . Disease Outbreak News  was WHO's first international media report summarizing details of the Wuhan outbreak. 

6 January::On Monday, 6 January, the Wuhan health authorities announced they continued seeking the cause but had so far ruled out influenza, avian influenza, adenovirus, and coronaviruses SARS and MERS as the respiratory pathogen that had infected 59 people as of 5 January.  The  New York Times  ran its first story on the outbreak. 

7 January::Scientists of the National Institute of Viral Disease Control and Prevention (IVDC) confirmed the novel coronavirus isolated on 3 January was the pathogenic cause of the viral pneumonia of unknown etiology (VPUE) cluster, and designated the disease as a novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia (NCIP).  Scientists in China announced the discovery of a new coronavirus. In a closed meeting of the  Politburo of the Chinese Communist Party ,  Xi Jinping   made requests for the prevention and control work of the coronavirus outbreak  and issued instructions to similar ends. This meeting occurred 13 days before Xi's first public comments on the outbreak on 20 January. Since the outburst of social media discussion of the mysterious pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan, China, Chinese authorities censored the hashtag  WuhanSARS and were now investigating anyone who was allegedly spreading misleading information about the outbreak on social media. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) created an  incident management system  and issued a travel notice Monday for travellers to Wuhan, Hubei province, China due to the cluster of cases of pneumonia of an unknown etiology . 

8 January::South Korea authorities put a 36-year-old Chinese woman under isolated treatment amid concerns that she had brought back a form of viral pneumonia that had sickened dozens in mainland China and Hong Kong in the previous weeks.  The unidentified woman, who worked for a South Korean company near capital Seoul, had experienced cough and fever since returning from a five-day trip to China on 30 December, the KCDC said in a press release. The woman had spent time in Wuhan, China, but had not visited the Huanan Seafood Market. 

9 January::First reported death The first death from the virus occurred in a 61-year-old man who was a regular customer at the market. He had several significant medical conditions, including chronic liver disease, and died from heart failure and pneumonia. The incident was reported in China by the  health commission  via  Chinese state media  on 11 January. The WHO confirmed that the novel coronavirus had been isolated from one person who had been hospitalized.  On the same day, the  European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  posted its first risk assessment.  The WHO also reported that Chinese authorities had acted swiftly,  identifying the novel coronavirus within weeks of the onset of the outbreak, with the total number of positively tested people being 41. Chinese scientists reported on Chinese state broadcaster CCTV that they had found a new  coronavirus in 15 of 57 patients with the illness in the central city of Wuhan, saying it has been preliminarily identified as the pathogen for the outbreak .  The scientists announced that the current 'Wuhan Virus', a coronavirus, appears to not be as lethal as SARS. They reported that the new viral outbreak was first detected in the city of Wuhan on 12 December 2019.  Additionally, a total of 59 people have been identified as contracting the illness, seven patients had been in a critical condition at some stage, and no healthcare workers were reported as having been infected. 

10 January::Genome sequence becomes public The genome of the isolated 2019-nCoV, a virus from the same family as the SARS coronavirus, was posted on  Virological.org  by  Edward Holmes  on behalf of Zhang Yong-Zhen of Fudan University, Shanghai.  The sequence had already been uploaded to  GenBank  on 5 January 2020, but was embargoed and thus not available to the public. Shortly thereafter, three genetic sequences of the isolated novel coronavirus from the  Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention , one from the  Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences , and one from  Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital  were posted to  GISAID . On 10 January 2020, Li Wenliang, Chinese ophthalmologist and coronavirus whistleblower, started having symptoms of a dry cough. On 12 January 2020, Wenliang started having a fever. He was admitted to the hospital on 14 January 2020. His parents also contracted the coronavirus (presumably from Wenliang) and were admitted to the hospital with him. Wenliang tested negative several times for the coronavirus until finally testing positive on 30 January 2020.  He died on 7 February 2020. First two patients in  Shenzhen , Guangdong, China attend  University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital . 

11 January::The first two patients in Shenzhen city transferred into a negative pressure room in Third People's Hospital of Shenzhen City due to matching lab test results, symptoms, and epidemiology and are being listed as suspected cases. The cases were not confirmed at the time, because requirement from the Chinese government at the time was that first case in each city needs to be submitted to provincial CDC, verified by national CDC, and then evaluated and confirmed by a specific diagnostic team in national CDC. 

11–12 January::In China, more than 700 close contacts of the 41 confirmed cases, including more than 400 healthcare workers, had been monitored, with no new cases reported in China since 5 January.  Respiratory wards in Wuhan hospitals began reaching capacity around 12 January, with some people being denied care.  The WHO published initial guidance on travel advice, testing in the laboratory, and medical investigation.  The WHO said that  The  Chinese  government reports that there is no clear evidence that the virus passes easily from person to person . 

13 January::The US  CDC  announced that the genome had been posted on the  NIH  genetic sequence database,  GenBank .  On the same day, Thailand witnessed the first confirmed case of 2019-nCoV, the first outside China.  The affected 61-year-old Chinese woman, who is a resident of Wuhan, had not visited the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, but was noted to have been to other markets. She had arrived in Bangkok on 8 January.  In response, the WHO urged China to continue searching for the source of the new virus. 

14 January::WHO sent a tweet which said  preliminary investigations conducted by the Chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) identified in Wuhan, China .  According to Reuters in Geneva, WHO said there may have been limited human-to-human transmission of a new coronavirus in China within families, and it is possible there could be a wider outbreak. The Wuhan Municipal Health Committee published a Q amp;A regarding the coronavirus, stating:  current investigation hasn't found clear evidence of human to human transmission, however, the possibility of human to human transmission cannot be ruled out . Two of the 41 confirmed cases in Wuhan were reported to include a married couple, raising the possibility of human-to-human transmission. Maria Van Kerkhove , acting head of WHO's emerging diseases unit, said that there had been limited human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus, mainly small clusters in families, adding that  it is very clear right now that we have no sustained human-to-human transmission Under 'Disease Outbreak News', in an article titled 'Novel Coronavirus – Thailand (ex-China)', WHO advised: 'No additional cases have been detected since 3 January 2020 in China.' In a confidential government teleconference on 15 January, between Ma Xiaowei, the head of the  National Health Commission  and the provincial health authorities, the government internally acknowledged the threat of a pandemic due to the reporting of the Thailand viral infection a day earlier and the public health threat that New Year holiday travel presented for the further spread of the virus. 

15 January::A second death occurred in a 69-year-old man in China on 15 January. The first known travel-related case of 2019 novel coronavirus entered the United States:  The patient from Washington with confirmed 2019-nCoV infection returned to the United States from Wuhan on January 15, 2020. The patient sought care at a medical facility in the state of Washington, where the patient was treated for the illness. Based on the patient's travel history and symptoms, healthcare professionals suspected this new coronavirus. A clinical specimen was collected and sent to CDC overnight, where laboratory testing yesterday confirmed the diagnosis via CDC's Real-time Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR) test. The US embassy in China issued a Health Alert Watch Level 1 for an outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, preliminarily identified to be caused by a novel coronavirus. 

16 January::Researchers from the German Center for Infection Research (DZIF) at  Charit Universit tsmedizin Berlin developed a new laboratory assay to detect the novel coronavirus. The assay protocol has been published by the WHO as a guideline for diagnostic detection for 2019-nCoV. The new assay enables suspected cases to be tested quickly. The WHO was alerted by Japan's  Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare  that the first case in Japan, a 30-year-old male Chinese national had tested positive to 2019-nCoV during a hospital stay between 10 and 15 January. He had not visited the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, but possibly had close contact with an affected person in Wuhan. Despite these developments, up until at least 16 January, Wuhan officials stated there had been no new cases for about two weeks, and only minimal measures had been put in place to slow the spread of the disease.  This policy would not change until the arrival of an epidemiological team from Beijing on 18 January. 

17 January::On 17 January, Thailand's second confirmed case was reported in a 74-year-old woman who arrived in Bangkok on a flight from Wuhan.  The number of laboratory-confirmed cases rose to 45 in China. Yang Xiaobo , head of the Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, died of pneumonia caused by the virus on 17 January. US CDC dispatched 100 people to three American airports to screen travellers coming from Wuhan, China. 

18 January::An epidemiological team from Beijing led by renowned Chinese scientist  Zhong Nanshan  arrived in Wuhan and began an investigation into the epidemic.  Officials reported 17 additional laboratory-confirmed cases, three of which were in critical condition. This brought the number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China to 62. The patients' ages ranged from 30 to 79. Nineteen were discharged and eight remain critical. Controversially, the Wuhan City government held an annual banquet in the Baibuting community celebrating the Chinese New Year, preparing food at ten different locations for 40 thousand families and likely contributing to the spread of the virus.  On 21 January 2020 when Wuhan mayor Zhou Xianwang was asked on state television why this banquet was held even after the number of cases had risen to 312, he responded,  The reason why the Baibuting community continued to host the banquet this year was based on the previous judgment that the spread of the epidemic was limited between humans, so there was not enough warning. US Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar spoke to Trump on the phone about the virus, during which Trump interjected to ask when flavored vaping products would be back on the market. 

19 January::On 19 January, the first confirmed cases were reported in China, outside Wuhan, one in the southern province of Guangdong and two in Beijing.  Wuhan reported 136 additional laboratory-confirmed cases, bringing the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China to 201. A new death was also reported in Wuhan, bringing the total number of fatalities in China to three. 

20 January::On 20 January, after two medical staff were infected in Guangdong,  China National Health Commission  confirmed that the virus was human-to-human transmissible.  The investigation team from China's National Health Commission confirmed for the first time that the coronavirus can be transmitted between humans. Scientists from the China CDC identified three different strains of the 2019-nCoV, confirming that the original Wuhan coronavirus had mutated into two additional strains. Chinese Communist Party   general secretary  ( Paramount leader ),  Xi Jinping  said  people's lives and health should be given top priority and the spread of the outbreak should be resolutely curbed.   State Council   premier   Li Keqiang  urged decisive and effective efforts to prevent and control the epidemic.  First confirmed case reported in South Korea.  Beijing and Guangdong reported an additional three and thirteen laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively. Shanghai confirms its first case, bringing the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China to 218.  At least two people had become infected while living hundreds of miles from Wuhan. The United States and South Korea each reported their first confirmed case of the coronavirus to the World Health Organization on 20 January.  US CDC developed its own testing kit after China shared the genetic sequence on 10 January and deployed it to detect the first coronavirus case. The testing kit used three small genetic sequences instead of two used by Germany. The test kits were found to be defective because the third sequence, or  probe , gave inconclusive results.  US National Institutes of Health has begun development of a vaccine for the coronavirus. Five attendees of an as-yet-unnamed private international sales company meeting of 109 attendees, 94 from overseas, held from 20 to 22 January at the Grand Hyatt Hotel, Singapore, were diagnosed with the coronavirus upon returning home: one from Malaysia, two from South Korea, and two from Singapore.  One of the attendees was from Wuhan, China. It was reported that the company held a buffet for their delegates. These four diagnoses were not reported until 5 February 2020.  The first laboratory-confirmed case in Singapore of an unrelated 67-year-old native of Wuhan was not reported until 23 January 2020.  These cases linked to the meeting were the first evidence that the Wuhan coronavirus had spread through human-to-human contact outside China, which the WHO has said is deeply concerning and could signal evidence of a much larger outbreak.  As of 5 February 2020, the sister of a Malaysian who attended the meeting had been infected and four more local staff in Singapore were confirmed as having virus symptoms. 

21 January::A total of 291 cases have now been reported across major cities in China, including Beijing and Shanghai. However, most patients are in Wuhan, the central city of 11 million at the heart of the outbreak. A report by the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London suggested there could be more than 1,700 infections. However, Gabriel Leung, the dean of medicine at the University of Hong Kong, put the figure closer to 1,300. After 300 confirmed diagnoses and 6 deaths, Chinese state media warned lower-level officials not to cover up the spread of a new coronavirus.  Officials declared that anyone who concealed new cases would  be nailed on the pillar of shame for eternity , the political body responsible for law and order said. The outbreak has revived memories of the SARS virus when the local Chinese officials initially withheld information about the SARS epidemic from the public and later vastly under-reported the number of people that had been infected, downplayed the risks, and failed to provide timely information that experts say could have saved lives. In its commentary published online on Tuesday, 21 January 2020, the Communist Party's Central Political and Legal Commission talked of China having learned a  painful lesson  from the SARS epidemic and called for the public to be kept informed. Deception, it warned, could  turn a controllable natural disaster into a man-made disaster . The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission reported at least 15 medical workers in Wuhan have also been infected with the virus, with one in a critical condition. WHO  Situation Report 1:  (Please note that the WHO Situation Reports as official reportage stand on their own.) Confirmed cases were reported in several new locations in China.  Zhejiang  and  Tianjin  reported five and two laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively.  Guangdong reported three additional laboratory-confirmed cases.  Shanghai and  Henan  reported an additional four and one laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively.  One laboratory-confirmed case was reported in  Sichuan , and  Chongqing  reported five laboratory-confirmed cases.   Shandong , Hunan, and  Yunnan  all reported one laboratory-confirmed case each.   Jiangxi  reported two laboratory-confirmed cases.  The total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China increased to 312 and the death toll increased to six. New cases were also reported outside of mainland China. Taiwan reported its first laboratory-confirmed case,  and the United States reported its first laboratory-confirmed case in the  state of Washington , the first in North America. China's Wuhan Institute filed to patent the use of Gilead's remdesivir for the treatment of novel coronavirus. As a response to the confirmation of human-to-human transmission in China, the WHO announces a meeting to gauge the level of the global threat to evaluate whether it has reached the level of a  global health emergency . 

22 January::WHO  Situation Report 2: New cases:  Macau  and Hong Kong reported their first laboratory-confirmed cases,  with Hong Kong reporting its second on the evening of 22 January.  Beijing reported an additional five laboratory-confirmed cases, while Guangdong reported an additional nine laboratory-confirmed cases. Shanghai reported an additional five laboratory-confirmed cases, while Tianjin reported an additional two laboratory-confirmed cases. Zhejiang and Jiangxi reported an additional five and one laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively.   Liaoning  reported its first two laboratory-confirmed cases.   Guizhou , Fujian,  Anhui , Shanxi, and  Ningxia  reported one laboratory-confirmed case each.   Hainan  reported four laboratory-confirmed cases.  Hunan reported three additional laboratory-confirmed cases.   Guangxi  reported two laboratory-confirmed cases.  In all, the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China increased to 571 and the death toll to 17. Internationally, two more laboratory-confirmed cases were reported in Thailand, raising the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in Thailand to four. New data showed indications of the current rapid spread of the disease and an increase in the rate of transmission. Officials announced a quarantine of the greater Wuhan, China area to commence on 23 January 2020 at 10:00 a.m. No traffic would be allowed in or out of the city. Zhou Xianwang, the mayor of Wuhan, admitted that his team had not released information about the virus in a  timely  manner, resulting in over 5 million people traveling out of the city before Wuhan was placed in quarantine. Zhou cited  party -reporting mechanisms , indicating that Wuhan needed authorization from the central government before they could make any announcement regarding the virus. The US embassy in China raised the Health Alert to level 2 (Practice Enhanced Precautions).  President Trump said during an interview at the Economic Forum in Switzerland that  It's one person coming in from China, and we have it under control. It's going to be just fine. The WHO Emergency Committee met in Geneva to consider whether the virus had reached the level of a  Public Health Emergency of International Concern . 

23 January::WHO  Situation Report 3: Jiangsu  reported its first laboratory-confirmed case.   Heilongjiang  reported its first two laboratory-confirmed cases.  Shanghai reported an additional seven laboratory-confirmed cases.   Xinjiang  reported two laboratory-confirmed cases.   Shaanxi  reported three laboratory-confirmed cases.   Gansu  reported two laboratory-confirmed cases.  Macau also reported its second laboratory-confirmed case, another 66-year-old man from Wuhan.  In all, the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in mainland China increased to 628 while the death toll remained at 17. Singapore reported its first laboratory-confirmed case, a 66-year-old man from China.   Vietnam  confirmed its first two laboratory-confirmed cases, a 65- or 66-year-old father and 27- or 28-year-old son from China. A scientific preprint from the Wuhan institute of Virology is posted on  bioRxiv  (later published in  Nature ) announcing that a bat virus with 96  similarity had been sequenced in a Yunnan cave in 2013, whose sequence is posted the next day on public databases.  It is confirmed by comparing infectivity of cells expressing or not expressing  ACE2  that the novel coronavirus uses this same entry receptor as  SARS-CoV . Wuhan  suspended all public transportation  from 10 a.m. onwards, including all bus, metro, and ferry lines. Additionally, all outbound trains and flights were halted.  According to the Science magazine, the travel quarantine of Wuhan delayed the overall epidemic progression by only 3 to 5 days in Mainland China, but had a more marked effect at the international scale, where case importations were reduced by nearly 80  until mid February. Based on the considerations of the WHO Emergency Committee, the WHO declared the virus to not yet be an official  PHEIC , but warned that it was an emergency in China. 

24 January::A report by Chinese doctors and scientists published in  The Lancet  medical journal was titled  Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China . It indicated that people can be symptom-free for several days while the coronavirus is incubating, increasing the risk of contagious infection without forewarning signs. According to their data, 13 of the initial 41 cases of the novel coronavirus had no link with the wet market in Wuhan purported to be the origin of the disease, and the evidence taken as a whole indicated human transmission.  They strongly recommended  personal protective equipment  for health workers dealing with patients, stressed the need for testing for the virus, and because of its  pandemic potential  careful surveillance was essential. The significance of this was highlighted on 18 March by  Richard Horton , editor-in-chief of  The Lancet . One of the earlier studies on person-to-person transmission was published by Hong Kong doctors in  The Lancet  titled  A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster . In the  Evidence before this study , it declared that  we searched PubMed on Jan 13, 2020, with no starting date limitations, using the terms  family ,  pneumonia ,  Wuhan ,  coronavirus , and  novel  for articles in English. Our search did not reveal any reports of novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan before 2020. We only noted family clusters of pneumonia due to the novel severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus in 2003, and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in 2012. WHO  Situation Report 4: Shandong reported six additional laboratory-confirmed cases. Hunan reported 15 additional laboratory-confirmed cases. Liaoning reported one additional laboratory-confirmed case. Fujian reported one laboratory-confirmed case and two suspected cases. Anhui reported six additional laboratory-confirmed cases. Ningxia reported one additional laboratory-confirmed case. Shanghai reported 13 additional laboratory-confirmed cases, bringing the total up to 33. Japan, South Korea, and the United States all confirmed their second cases. Singapore confirmed its second and third cases. Thailand confirmed its fifth case. Hong Kong confirmed three additional cases, bringing the total number to five.  Nepal confirmed its first case, a student who returned from Wuhan. France reported its first three confirmed cases, the first occurrences in the EU.  The French Health Minister  Agn s Buzyn  stated that it is likely other cases would arise in the country. The first confirmed incidence of human-to-human transmission outside of China was documented by the WHO in Vietnam. A consortium of Chinese medical experts charged by the Chinese CDC with investigating the inception of the virus, published their report in  The Lancet , reporting details of 41 first known patients. By the end of the day, the entire Hubei province had gone under a city-by-city quarantine, apart from  Xiangyang  and  Shennongjia  Forestry District. 

25 January::General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party  Xi Jinping  called the  accelerating spread  of the coronavirus a  grave situation  in a  Party Politburo  meeting,  and that it was  mutating  as Beijing escalates measures to contain the illness. WHO  Situation Report 5: Australia confirmed its first four cases, one in  Victoria  and three in  New South Wales .  Malaysia reported its first three cases in  Johor Bahru ,  and a fourth case later.  Japan confirmed its third case.  Canada confirmed its first case in  Toronto  marking the beginning of the first wave bringing the total number to one.  Thailand added two new cases for a total of seven.  Singapore confirmed their fourth case. A Chinese and a Sri Lankan suspected with the infection were admitted to a hospital in Sri Lanka. Liang Wudong, a 62-year-old doctor, reportedly died in Hubei province from COVID-19. Following the confirmation of cases in Europe, the WHO released a statement noting that  the Time is now to 'act as one '  in fighting the virus. 

26 January::WHO  Situation Report 6: The  Spring Festival  holiday was extended to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Shanghai reported its first death, an 88-year-old man. The United States confirmed its third, fourth, and fifth cases: two in California  and one in  Arizona .  Macau confirmed three additional cases, bringing its total to five.  Hong Kong confirmed its sixth, seventh, and eighth cases.  South Korea has confirmed its third case.  Thailand has confirmed its eighth case. The first of five patients was already discharged. There are another 39 suspected cases awaiting confirmation. The  Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention  (CCDC) has started developing vaccines against the coronavirus, an official with the center said on Sunday. Health officials in Ivory Coast are dealing with a suspected case of COVID-19, the country's health ministry has announced. The United Nation's  WHO  Director-General  Tedros Ghebreyesus  said he was on his way to Beijing to confer with Chinese officials and health experts about the coronavirus outbreak. China started requiring nationwide use of monitoring stations for screening, identification, and immediate isolation of coronavirus-infected travelers, including at airports, railway stations, bus stations, and ports. A tentative clinical profile for the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was published by an assistant professor of population health science at the  Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai  in New York. The lethality of the virus is unknown; however, the death toll has now climbed to above three percent. Wang Xianliang, a Hubei provincial government official, died of pneumonia caused by the virus. 

27 January::WHO  Situation Report 7: Gabriel Leung, Dean of the University of Hong Kong medical school and one of the foremost world experts on SARS and viruses, gave a three-hour presentation published on YouTube wherein he made nowcasts and forecasts of the coronavirus. Using traditional scientific modeling techniques that predict the spread of viruses, Leung projected the true number of COVID-19 infections was likely 10 times more than the official reported numbers.  Leung estimated that there were between 44,000 and 100,000 infections in China as of 24 January 2020. He stated that draconian measures were needed to slow the progress of the virus but that these measures would have no effect in stopping the coronavirus pandemic. He projected that the number of infections would continue exponentially, peaking out in late April or May 2020. Leung predicted that, at the peak of the pandemic, there could be up to 100,000 new infections per day. Leung subsequently published an article in  The Lancet  nowcasting and forecasting the likely progression of the Wuhan coronavirus taking into consideration numerous variables.  Zhou Xianwang, the mayor of Wuhan, said on a Chinese state television talkshow that rules imposed by Beijing limited what he could disclose about the threat posed by the Wuhan coronavirus as it unfolded, suggesting  the central government was partially responsible for a lack of transparency that has marred the response to the fast-expanding health crisis. Canada reported its first confirmed case and another presumptive case bringing the total number to two.  Health officials have confirmed the fifth case of COVID-19 in Australia, and have suspected an additional five.  The Sri Lankan Health Ministry confirms its first case of COVID-19, a 43-year-old Chinese woman.  Cambodia confirms its first case of the virus, a Chinese man who came with his family to  Sihanoukville .  Singapore confirms a fifth case, a 56-year-old Chinese national who arrived from Wuhan on 18 January.  South Korea has confirmed its fourth case.  Germany confirmed its first case in  Bavaria , a case of domestic transmission.  Taiwan reports its first case of domestic transmission of COVID-19. Beijing reports its first death from COVID-19. Three new suspected cases in Austria; previous suspected cases tested negative.  The ' Matei Bal ' Institute reported the first possible case in Romania,  but the first case would not be confirmed until 26 February.  Ecuador reported a suspected case of coronavirus, a Chinese citizen who arrived from Hong Kong,  but the first case would not be confirmed until 29 February.  Fiji authorities were holding six Chinese travelers in quarantine in  Nadi  as a precaution after they failed to gain entry to Samoa due to Samoa's quarantine requirements that were implemented Friday. The quarantine requirements, imposed after an emergency Cabinet meeting, compel anyone who has been in China to  self-quarantine  in a country free from COVID-19 for 14 days.  In Poland, two children were admitted to the  Krak w  hospital with the suspicion of COVID-19.  In Mongolia, a 14-year-old girl, who was studying in China, had fallen ill with a suspected case of pneumonia and laryngitis; she was pronounced dead on the same day. Health authorities have since taken a sample from the deceased girl to be analyzed at the National Center for Communicable Diseases in  Ulaanbaatar .  Two Mongolian students returning from Taiwan to  Chinggis Khaan International Airport  had shown symptoms of high fever and rising temperature and were put into quarantine after landing in Mongolia.  In Switzerland, two people were put under quarantine at the  Triemli Hospital  in Zurich; both had previously been to China.  These cases later turned up negative. In Germany, the first specific, global case of coronavirus being transmitted by a person with no symptoms has been reported. The originally-infected individual is from Shanghai. South Korean health officials met with Korean life science company representatives to speed the development of a test. In the US, there was a surge of warnings from its intelligence agencies toward the end of January and into early February. The then-acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney began convening regular meetings. In early briefings, however, officials said Trump was dismissive because he did not believe that the virus had spread widely throughout the United States. The WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus visited in China to discuss the outbreak with senior Chinese officials. 

28 January::China's Supreme People's Court through a message  in its official WeChat account vindicated  Li Wenliang  and the other seven doctors and said they should not have been punished as what they said was not entirely false.  The Court further stated that  based on the difference in cognitive level, different individuals may produce different degrees of false information about the same thing. We should permit the law to have a certain degree of tolerance towards individuals. For example, in the case of the 8 persons being punished by Wuhan Police for publishing '7 SARS cases diagnosed in the Huanan Seafood Market', if we mechanically apply the law, since the new coronavirus infected pneumonia is not SARS, by saying SARS has emerged, we can indeed determine that is the fabrication of false information, and the information has caused chaos in the social order. In accordance with the law provided, administrative punishment and even criminal punishment can be justified for the act of fabricating and disseminating false information. However, the fact is the message is not entirely false. If society had at the time believed those 'rumours', and wore masks, used disinfectant and avoided going to the wildlife market as if there were a SARS outbreak, perhaps it would have helped us better control the coronavirus today . WHO  Situation Report 8: Thailand confirms six more cases, bringing the total infected there to 14. Thailand's health minister,  Anutin Charnvirakul , states that  we are not able to stop the spread  of coronavirus in the country.  Singapore confirms two more cases, bringing the total infected in Singapore to seven. That was followed by a Hubei-related suspension from 29 January.  Japan confirms three additional cases, bringing the total infected in Japan to seven, including a man who had never visited Wuhan. He was working as a tour bus driver and had driven a group from Wuhan earlier in January.  Germany's first confirmed case, reported the previous day, had occurred in a German citizen who had not traveled to China. However, he had close contact with a visiting Chinese colleague who reported starting to feel ill during her return flight to Shanghai and she was diagnosed with a coronavirus infection after arriving in China. Germany confirmed three new cases, all of whom were coworkers of the first confirmed patient.  France confirmed its fourth case, an elderly Chinese tourist who is in critical condition. The Brazilian  Ministry of Health  reports three suspected cases ongoing in three locations:  Belo Horizonte  (MG),  Curitiba  (PR), and  S o Leopoldo  (RS).  Canada reports a new presumptive case in  British Columbia , a man in his 40s who had recently traveled to Wuhan bringing the total number to three. A UK-Chinese medical research paper reports a statistical model finding that  estimates suggest the actual number of infected cases could be much higher than the reported, with estimated 26,701 cases (as of 28 January 2020). Scientists from The Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity (Doherty Institute) in Melbourne reported that they had successfully grown 2019-nCoV from a patient sample. A senior medical adviser at the Department of Veterans Affairs, Carter Mecher, wrote on the night of 28 January, in an email to a group of public health experts scattered around the government and universities.  The projected size of the outbreak already seems hard to believe. 

29 January::WHO  Situation Report 9: Tibet  reported its first suspected case identified on the previous day  and declared a level 1 health emergency in the evening, the last mainland provincial division to do so.  Suspected cases have now been reported in all 31 mainland provincial divisions. Companies in Hubei are required not to resume services before 13 February, and schools in Hubei are to postpone reopening. The  UAE  confirms its first case.  Shortly afterwards, an  Emirates ' news agency confirmed four people from a Chinese family to be infected.  Finland reports its first case of the virus in  Lapland , found in a Chinese tourist who left Wuhan before Wuhan was locked down.  Singapore confirms three more cases of the virus, bringing the total infected to 10.  Malaysia confirms three additional cases, bringing its total to seven.  Japan reports four additional cases, including a tour bus guide that was on the same bus as one of the cases confirmed on 28 January  and three evacuated from Wuhan.  France confirmed a fifth case, the daughter of the patient in the fourth case. Two Chinese nationals were placed in isolation wards in  Armenia  amid the first suspected case of COVID-19 in the country. The Chinese nationals were tourists traveling to Armenia from neighboring  Georgia . Liana Torosyan, the head of the Department of Infectious Diseases, advised that samples will be sent to European labs, as Armenia does not have the capacity to test for the novel coronavirus.  Brazil reports a total of nine suspected cases in six states of the country. Air Canada was halting all direct flights to China following the federal government's advisory to avoid non-essential travel to the mainland due to the 2019-nCoV epidemic. The suspension was effective Thursday and slated to last until 29 February. Trump administration trade advisor  Peter Navarro  issued a memo warning that coronavirus could  evolv e  into a full-blown pandemic, imperiling the lives of millions of Americans  and that the  risk of a worst-case pandemic scenario should not be overlooked . A critic of the Chinese government before the pandemic, Navarro argued for restrictions on travel from China. The Wuhan police clarified that Li Wenliang was not arrested nor fined, but was warned as he had spread that  there had been 7 confirmed cases of SARS , which was not true. The WHO confirmed over 6,000 confirmed cases in China to date. 

30 January::WHO  Situation Report 10: WHO declared the virus was a  Public Health Emergency of International Concern  and advised  all countries should be prepared for containment, including active surveillance, early detection, isolation and case management, contact tracing and prevention of onward spread of 2019-nCoV infection, and to share full data with WHO. Tibet confirms its first case, which was previously suspected.  Cases have now been confirmed in all 31 provincial divisions of mainland China.  India confirms its first case of coronavirus in a student who had returned from  Wuhan University  to the Indian state of  Kerala .  Philippines confirms its first case of coronavirus in a female Chinese national who arrived in  Manila  via Hong Kong on 21 January.  Japan confirms three more cases, bringing the total to 14.  Malaysia confirms one more case, bringing the total to eight.  Singapore confirms three more cases, bringing the total to 13.  South Korea confirms two more cases with one of them being the first human-to-human transmission there, bringing the total to six.  Vietnam confirms three new cases, bringing the total to five.  France confirms its sixth case.  Italy confirms its first two cases in a press conference by the Prime Minister,  Giuseppe Conte .  Germany confirms its fifth case, an employee of the company where the four previously known cases are also employed. The United States confirmed its sixth case, the spouse of another patient in Chicago.  This is the first confirmed case of human-to-human transmission within the United States. Azar, Redfield, and Anthony S. Fauci agreed that a ban on travel from the epidemic's center could buy some time to put into place prevention and testing measures.  There was so much we didn't know about this virus,  Redfield said in an interview,  We were rapidly understanding it was much more transmissible, that it had a great ability to go global. 

31 January::WHO  Situation Report 11: The United Kingdom and Russia confirmed their first coronavirus infections.  The first Swedish and Spanish cases were confirmed.  The seventh confirmed case in the US is in  Santa Clara County, California .  A fourth case of coronavirus in Canada has been confirmed in  London , Ontario bringing the total number to four.  Thailand confirmed five more cases with the first human-to-human virus transmission inside the country of a local taxi driver, bringing the total to 19.  Singapore confirmed three more cases including the first Singaporean patient, bringing the total to 16.  South Korea confirmed five more cases, bringing the total to 11.  Chinese health experts warn the public that coronavirus patients can become reinfected. China starts repatriating citizens to  Wuhan . A senior leader at US Department of Health and Human Services said staff members were sent to Travis Air Force Base and March Air Reserve Base in late January and early February and were ordered to enter quarantined areas were not provided with proper safety-protocol training or equipment, with at least one person staying in a nearby hotel and leaving California on a commercial flight.  US bans the entry of foreign nationals who had been to China in the previous 14 days. 
1 February::WHO  Situation Report 12:  (Please note that the WHO Situation Reports as official reportage stand on their own.) Australia reported another three cases, including the first two cases in  South Australia , bringing their total to 12. Japan reported three more cases, increasing their total to 20. Singapore confirms two more cases, bringing the total to 18. South Korea confirmed the 12th case of the coronavirus: a 49-year-old Chinese man who works as a Japanese tour guide in western  Seoul . Spain confirmed its first case of the virus on La Gomera in the Canaries. The United States of America reported its eighth case, a man from  Boston  who recently returned to college after traveling to Wuhan. Vietnam confirmed its sixth case in  Kh nh H a Province , another domestic transmission in direct contact. 

2 February::WHO  Situation Report 13: India announced its second case. The Philippines saw the first confirmed death from COVID-19 outside mainland China announced. The case was that of a 44-year-old male who was the companion of the first confirmed case in the country; both are Chinese nationals from Wuhan who had arrived in the country via Hong Kong on 21 January. He had been in stable condition prior to his death on 1 February. South Korea reported three more cases, bringing their total to 15. The United Arab Emirates reported its fifth case. The United States of America, confirmed three more cases, all in California, bringing the total to 11.  Two Germans aboard the evacuation flight from Wuhan tested positive for the virus, bringing the number of cases there up to 12. Vietnam announced its seventh case of COVID-19, a Vietnamese-American who had had a two-hour layover at Wuhan Airport. 

3 February::WHO  Situation Report 14: The number of deaths in Hubei outside Wuhan reached 101. According to the WHO, there were no new countries reporting cases in the past 24 hours. India confirmed its third case in  Kerala . Vietnam announced its eighth COVID-19 case, a Vietnamese woman who had been on the same flight with three other positive cases. 

4 February::WHO  Situation Report 15: Belgium confirmed its first case, bringing the total in the European Union to 24. Canada announced one presumptive case in British Columbia bringing the total number to five. Hong Kong confirmed its first death from a 39-year-old patient, the 13th confirmed case in the city. Malaysia confirmed two more COVID-19 cases, which included a Malaysian citizen, bringing the total to 10 cases. Singapore confirmed six more cases, including the first locally transmitted cases involving four, bringing the total to 24. Two others came from an evacuation plane from Wuhan. South Korea confirmed its 16th case after a tourist returned from Thailand, the first to have been infected there. Thailand confirmed six more cases, bringing the total to 25. Vietnam announced its ninth and tenth COVID-19 case, including a Vietnamese man who had been on the same flight with four other positive cases. 

5 February::WHO  Situation Report 16: China, in Wuhan now reported 10,117 cases in total, exceeding 10,000.  Tianjin, reported its first death. Chinese experts said that nucleic acid testing was only able to identify 30 –50  positive cases. Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total to 21. Japan confirmed 10 new cases from the quarantined cruise ship  Diamond Princess , near Yokohama, bringing the total number up to 35 cases. There were more than 3,500 on board to be tested. Malaysia announced two more cases, bringing the total cases to 12. The Philippines confirmed its third positive case, a 60-year-old woman from Wuhan, China. Singapore confirmed four more cases, including a six-month-old Singaporean, bringing the total cases to 28. South Korea confirmed two more cases of COVID-19, including a patient who returned from Singapore, bringing the total cases to 18.  Another case was later reported, bringing the total cases to 19. The United States of America saw health officials in the state of Wisconsin announce the first case in that state. 

6 February::WHO  Situation Report 17: Canada announced two presumptive cases in  British Columbia  bringing the total number to seven. China, in Zhejiang over 1,000 cases were confirmed, the first such province besides Hubei.  Doctor  Li Wenliang , who notified his class colleagues in a private chat room on social media of the coronavirus, died of the infection. Germany confirmed its 13th case, and Italy confirmed its third, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in Europe to 31. Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total to 24. Japan confirmed another 10 new cases from  Diamond Princess , quarantined in Yokohama, bringing the total to 45. Malaysia confirmed two more cases, bringing the total to 14. One of the cases was locally transmitted, the first in Malaysia. Singapore confirmed two more cases, bringing the total to 30. South Korea confirmed four more cases, bringing the total to 23. Taiwan announced three more cases, bringing the total to 16. The United Kingdom saw the third case confirmed, with the patient having visited Singapore. A patient in San Jose, California became the first COVID-19 death in the United States discovered by April 2020. She died at home without any known recent foreign travel, after being unusually sick from flu in late January, then recovering,  remote working , and suddenly dying on 6 February. A 7 February autopsy  was completed in April (after virus tests on tissue samples) and attributed the death to Transmural Myocardial Ischemia (Infarction) with a Minor Component of Myocarditis due to COVID-19 Infection. Her case indicates that community transmission was happening undetected in the US, most likely since December. Vietnam confirmed two more cases, bringing the total to 12. 

7 February::WHO  Situation Report 18: China Guangdong confirmed over 1,000 cases in total, the second such province outside Hubei, and recorded its first death. Wuhan reported 67 more deaths, bringing the total number of people killed by the virus there to 545; other cities in Hubei reported 14 deaths in total, their net figure now reaching 154. Another 41 tested positive for the coronavirus on  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number of cases in Japan to 86. Germany announced its 14th case. Hong Kong confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 26. Malaysia confirmed one more case from a tourist entering from Singapore, bringing the total to 15. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total to 33. Most of these cases were initially of unknown origin, causing the Disease Outbreak Response System Condition (DORSCON) level to increase to Orange. South Korea confirmed one more case, bringing the total to 24. Vietnam confirmed one additional case, bringing the total to 13. 

8 February::WHO  Situation Report 19: China: Wuhan confirmed 63 more deaths, bringing its total to 608;  this now includes a Japanese citizen and a US citizen dying on this day. Henan became the third province besides Hubei to report over 1,000 cases.  Nationally, the number of cases outside Hubei exceeded 10,000. Aerosol  was confirmed as a medium of transmission for the first time. Beijing reported a first type of case involving a patient, who tested positive after three negative test results, and  Qingtian ,  Zhejiang  reported a case where the patient tested positive only after being tested for the fifth time. France confirmed five cases involving British nationals, bringing the total number to 11. In Japan, three more cases tested positive on  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number of cases in Japan to 89. Malaysia confirmed one more case, bringing the total to 16. Singapore confirmed seven more cases, bringing the total to 40. Thailand confirmed seven additional cases, bringing the total to 32. The United Arab Emirates confirmed two more cases, bringing the total to seven. 

9 February::WHO  Situation Report 20: China (Mainland) now confirmed a total of 40,213 cases, exceeding 40,000, of which 29,631 were in Hubei.  The coronavirus death toll in China rose to 811, surpassing the toll from the  SARS epidemic  from 2002 to 2003. Hong Kong confirmed 10 more cases, with nine from the same family, bringing the total number to 36. Malaysia confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 17. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 43. South Korea reported three new cases of the virus, bringing the country's total to 27. Spain confirmed the second case in the country in  Palma de Mallorca . Taiwan confirmed its 18th case. The United Kingdom confirmed its fourth case. Vietnam confirmed its 14th case, a 55-year-old woman in  V nh Ph c . Six more cases were confirmed aboard  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number of cases on the ship to 70, with Japan having 96 cases. 

10 February::WHO  Situation Report 21: Hong Kong confirmed six more cases, bringing the total number to 42. Japan confirmed 65 more cases on  Diamond Princess , bringing the total to 135. Malaysia confirmed one more case involving a citizen, bringing the total to 18. Singapore confirmed another two cases, including a  Certis  officer who served Quarantine Orders, bringing the total to 45. The United Arab Emirates confirmed its eighth case, an Indian national. The United Kingdom saw four additional cases were confirmed, bringing the total to eight. The transmission in these cases is believed to have occurred in France. The United States of America confirmed its 13th case in  San Diego , a patient who had been evacuated from Wuhan. 

11 February::WHO  Situation Report 22: Germany confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 16. Hong Kong confirmed seven more cases, bringing the total to 49. Singapore confirmed another two cases, bringing the total to 47. South Korea confirmed one more case, a 30-year-old Chinese woman, bringing the total number to 28. Thailand confirmed one new case, bringing the total in the country to 33. Vietnam confirmed its 15th case, a three-month-old baby infected by her grandmother. The WHO gives the disease the new name  COVID-19 .  Additionally, the virus itself is named  SARS-CoV-2 . 

12 February::WHO  Situation Report 23: Hong Kong confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 50. Japan confirmed 39 more cases on  Diamond Princess , including one quarantine officer, bringing the total to 174.  Another case was reported in Japan itself, bringing the total number to 29. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total to 50.  Earlier, 300 employees of  DBS Bank  were asked to evacuate from the office at  Marina Bay Financial Centre  Tower 3 due to a confirmed case there. In the United Kingdom, the first case in London was confirmed, bringing the country's total to nine. The United States of America confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 14. 

13 February::WHO  Situation Report 24: Japan confirmed four more cases, bringing the total to 33.  At the same time, 44 new cases were confirmed on the  Diamond Princess , bringing the total to 218.  Later on, Japan confirmed its first death from the virus. Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 53. Malaysia confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 19. Singapore confirmed eight more cases, bringing the total number to 58. A school in  National University of Singapore  would conduct e-learning from 14 to 21 February as a precaution after one of the cases involved a professor. The United States of America, the CDC confirmed the 15th US coronavirus case, a Wuhan evacuee quarantined at a military base in  Texas . Vietnam confirmed its 16th case. Discrepancy in the number of cases The same day, Hubei reported newly confirmed cases of 14,840, nearly 10 times more than the previous day, while deaths more than doubled to 242. This was due to the change in definition that included clinical (radiological) diagnosis of patients.  The World Health Organization indicated that, for consistency, it would report only the number of laboratory-confirmed cases. 

14 February::WHO  Situation Report 25: Canada confirmed  British Columbia 's fifth presumptive case, bringing the total number in the country to eight. Egypt confirmed its first case, a foreigner of undisclosed nationality. This was the first case on the African continent. Hong Kong confirmed three more infections, bringing the total number to 56. Japan confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 37. Singapore confirmed nine more cases, bringing the total number to 67. 

15 February::WHO  Situation Report 26: France saw the first death outside Asia being confirmed, an 80-year-old Chinese tourist in France. The country also confirmed its 12th case. Japan confirmed nine additional confirmed cases not aboard  Diamond Princess .  Japan also confirmed 67 additional cases aboard the cruise ship  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number of cases from the ship to 285. Malaysia confirmed three more cases, including an American passenger from the cruise ship  MS Westerdam  flying from Cambodia, bringing the total number to 22. Singapore confirmed five more cases, bringing the total number to 72. Thailand confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 34. 

16 February::WHO  Situation Report 27: Hong Kong confirmed one new coronavirus case, bringing the total to 57. Japan also confirmed six new cases, bringing the total of infected people not aboard  Diamond Princess  to 59.  On  Diamond Princess , 70 additional cases were confirmed, increasing the tally to 355. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 75. South Korea confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 29. Taiwan confirmed its first death from COVID-19, a man in his 60s. Moreover, two new cases were confirmed, bringing the total number to 20. The United Arab Emirates confirmed one more case, a 37-year-old Chinese citizen, bringing the total number to nine. 

17 February::WHO  Situation Report 28: Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 60. Japan confirmed seven new cases, bringing the total of infected people not aboard  Diamond Princess  to 66.  Diamond Princess  in Japan confirmed 99 new coronavirus cases, bringing the total number of infected people on the cruise ship to 454. Singapore confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 77. South Korea confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 30. Taiwan confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 22. Thailand confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 35. The United States had its second known death from COVID-19, from unknown (community) transmission to a 69-year-old man in Santa Clara County, California. This death was attributed to COVID-19 in April by a delayed autopsy. 

18 February::WHO  Situation Report 29: Hong Kong confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 62. Japan confirmed eight more cases across the nation, bringing the total to 74. At the same time, 88 additional cases aboard  Diamond Princess  were confirmed, bringing the total on the ship to 542. Singapore confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 81. South Korea confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 31. 

19 February::WHO  Situation Report 30: Hong Kong confirmed its second death from the coronavirus. In addition, three new cases were confirmed, bringing the total number in Hong Kong to 65. Iran confirmed its first two cases resulting in deaths. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 84. South Korea confirmed 20 more cases, bringing the total number to 51 with the majority of these transmissions happening in a church in Daegu. Taiwan confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 23. Passengers started to disembark from  Diamond Princess , one of the cruise ships in the outbreak. The sheer number of passengers infected has led to questions over the effectiveness of quarantine measures.  On the cruise ship, 79 more cases were confirmed, bringing the total number to 621. 

20 February::WHO  Situation Report 31: Canada confirms one more case, a woman who had recently visited Iran, bringing the total number to nine. Hong Kong confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 69. Iran confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to five. Japan confirmed 10 more domestic cases, bringing the total number to 94. Singapore confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 85. South Korea confirmed 53 more cases, bringing the total number to 104. The first death from the virus was also confirmed. Taiwan confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 24. The United States confirmed one more case in California, bringing the total number to 16. Two deaths were confirmed aboard the cruise ship  Diamond Princess  along with 13 more cases, bringing the total number to 634. 

21 February::WHO  Situation Report 32: Australia confirmed four more cases involving evacuees from the cruise ship  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number to 19. Israel also confirmed its first case, an evacuee from  Diamond Princess . Italy confirmed 17 cases, bringing the total number to 20. Authorities also reported the first death, a 78-year-old man. Iran announces 13 new cases, bringing the total to 18. Two more deaths were also confirmed. Japan confirmed 15 more cases, bringing the total number to 109. Lebanon confirmed its first case. Singapore confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 86. South Korea confirmed 100 more cases, bringing the total number to 204.  The country also reported its second death. Taiwan confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 26. The United Arab Emirates confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 11. The United States confirmed 20 more cases, bringing the total number to 35.  Furthermore, the  Association of Public Health Laboratories  (APHL) announced that only three states were capable of testing for the coronavirus: California, Nebraska, and Illinois. In addition, the first known case of COVID-19 occurred in New Zealand, and was retroactively reported on 23 September. 

22 February::WHO  Situation Report 33: Australia confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 22. Hong Kong confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 70. Iran confirmed 10 more cases, bringing the total number to 28. A fifth death was also confirmed. Italy confirmed 59 more cases spread across three different administrative regions, bringing the total number to 79, making Italy the European country with the biggest number of cases of coronavirus infections.  The second death was also confirmed, an Italian woman from Lombardy. Japan confirmed 26 more cases, bringing the total number to 135. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 89. South Korea confirmed 229 more cases, bringing the total number to 433.  Concerns are raised that nine tourists from South Korea may have caused a widespread exposure in Israel. The United Arab Emirates confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 13. The urine sample of a patient tested positive. A genome analysis indicated that the virus in  Huanan Seafood Market  originated from outside. 

23 February::WHO  Situation Report 34: Canada confirmed one more presumptive case in Ontario. The samples had been sent to the National Microbiology Lab for further testing bringing the total number to 10. Hong Kong confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 74. Iran confirmed 15 more cases and two more deaths, bringing the total number to 43 and 8, respectively. Israel confirmed one more case, who was a passenger on the cruise ship, bringing the total number to two. Italy confirmed 73 new cases, bringing the total to 152 spread across five different administrative regions.  The third death was also reported.  Italy is now the third country in the world by number of cases, after China and South Korea. South Korea confirmed 169 more cases, bringing the total number to 602. Four more deaths were also confirmed, bringing the total to six. Taiwan confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 28. The United Kingdom confirmed four new cases, all involving evacuees from the Diamond Princess cruise ship, bringing the total number to 13. There were 57 more cases aboard  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number to 691. One death associated to the cruise ship was also confirmed, bringing the total number to three. 

24 February::WHO  Situation Report 35: Afghanistan confirmed its first case involving a person who recently returned from the Iranian city of Qom. Bahrain confirmed its first case involving a Bahraini citizen who traveled to Iran. Canada confirmed one more case in British Columbia, bringing the total number to 11. Hong Kong confirmed seven more cases, bringing the total number to 81. Iran confirmed 18 more cases, bringing the total number to 61. Four more deaths were also reported in the country, bringing the total number to 12. Iraq confirmed its first case involving an Iranian student. Italy confirmed 74 new cases, bringing the total to 229 spread across six different administrative regions.  Four more deaths were also confirmed, bringing the total number to seven. Kuwait announced their first cases involving five people arriving from the Iranian city of Mashhad. Oman confirmed its first cases involving two Omani women who had come from Iran. Singapore confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 90. South Korea confirmed 231 more cases, bringing the total number to 833. The seventh death was also confirmed. Spain confirmed its third positive case, an Italian man, in Tenerife, Canary Islands. Taiwan confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 30. The United States confirmed 18 more cases including evacuated passengers from the cruise ship, bringing the total number to 53. A patient in  Sichuan  province tested positive only on her ninth test. 

25 February::WHO  Situation Report 36: Algeria reported its first case, an Italian man who arrived on 17 February. Austria reported its first two cases, two Italians living in Tyrol tested positive for the coronavirus. Bahrain confirmed its second case, a Bahraini woman who had traveled from Iran through Dubai International Airport.  This later increased to eight confirmed cases with the addition of two Bahraini men and four Saudi Arabian women.  Later on the same day, Bahrain updated the number of cases to 17, with all infected people travelling from Iran.  This total later rose again to 23 cases, again all having traveled from Iran. Brazil Ministry of Health reported the first positive case of coronavirus in the country and South America, a 61-year-old man from  S o Paulo , who traveled to  Lombardy ,  Italy , between 9 and 21 February. He was showing mild symptoms and quarantined at home; the confirmation test was also positive. Croatia announced its first case of the virus, with a patient hospitalized in the capital, Zagreb, who had traveled to Italy and stayed in Milan. France saw two additional cases: one was a French man returning from a trip in the Lombardy region of Italy; the other was a young Chinese woman returning to France from a trip to China. This took the total number of cases in the country to 14. Germany saw a case identified in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia of a person recently returned from Italy, taking the country's cases to 17. Another man was later confirmed to be positive, bringing the total number to 18. Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 84. Iranian officials confirmed the death toll was officially now 16. There were 34 more cases, bringing the total number to 95.  The same day, Iranian MP  Mahmoud Sadeghi  confirmed he had tested positive for the virus,  along with  Iraj Harirchi , the Deputy Minister for Health, who had the previous day been part of a press conference about Iran's handling of the virus. Iraq confirmed five more cases an Iranian student and a family of four who had arrived from Iran, taking the total number of cases to six. Italy confirmed 94 new cases, bringing the total to 323 spread across nine different administrative regions. Three more deaths were also confirmed, bringing the total number to 10.  This later in the day rose to four deaths, bringing the total to 11. Kuwait confirmed four additional cases, all of them people who had returned from Iran, taking their total to nine cases. Oman confirmed two additional cases, taking its total to four cases. Both the additional cases were linked to travel to Iran. Singapore confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 91. South Korea confirmed 144 more cases, bringing the total number to 977. Four more deaths were also confirmed, bringing the total to 11.  Among those infected included a  Korean Air  crew member. On the island of Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain, two Italian hotel guests tested positive for the virus. This resulted in hundreds of guests at the H10 Costa Adeje Palace hotel being isolated to facilitate further testing and to halt the spread of the disease.  Later in the day, the first case was reported in mainland Spain, with a woman from Catalonia, who had recently returned from Italy, diagnosed in Barcelona.  A seventh case was confirmed in the late evening by the Madrid regional government. Switzerland's government announced the first infection in the country. Taiwan confirmed one more case, an 11-year-old boy, bringing the total number to 31. Thailand reported two more cases, taking its total to 37. The two new cases, both Thai nationals, were people who were being monitored due to the travel history of others who had traveled to countries with infection risks. The fourth death associated with  Diamond Princess  was confirmed. 

26 February::WHO  Situation Report 37:  The WHO Director-General,  Tedros Adhanom , noted that  14 countries that have had cases have not reported a case for more than a week, and even more importantly, 9 countries have not reported a case for more than two weeks: Belgium, Cambodia, Finland, India, Nepal, Philippines, the Russian Federation, Sri Lanka and Sweden. Australia confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 23. Bahrain confirmed three additional cases, bringing its total to 26.  Later in the evening, it confirmed another seven cases, taking the total to 33. Canada confirmed a new case in Toronto of a woman with travel history to Iran. This took the country's total to 12. Croatia confirmed its second and third cases, the second being the twin brother of the first patient  and the third being a man who works in Parma, Italy. Finland reported its second case. France confirmed three new cases, taking it to 17 cases. It also announced its second death from the disease, a 60-year-old French man who had been diagnosed the night before.  An 18th case was later declared. Georgia reported its first case in the country, a Georgian native traveling from Iran. Germany reported five additional cases.  By the end of the day the overall total number of cases in the country had risen to 27. Greece confirmed its first case, a 38-year-old woman who had recently traveled to Italy. Hong Kong reported six new cases, including a 16-year-old boy and his 21-year-old sister who were both aboard  Diamond Princess , bringing the total to 91 cases. Italy confirmed 51 additional cases, bringing its total to 374. It also confirmed the 12th death from the virus.  In the evening, they declared 27 new cases  followed by an additional 54 cases, with two earlier cases declared false positives. Iran confirmed four more deaths, taking the total to 19. Another 44 cases were confirmed, bringing the total number to 139. Japan confirmed its second death from the virus.  It also reported five new confirmed cases in Nagoya. A third death was later confirmed. Kuwait confirmed that their total of confirmed cases had risen to 12 with one new case. Later that day, they confirmed the overall total had risen to 25. Lebanon confirmed its second case. North Macedonia confirmed its first case, a woman who had recently returned home from Italy. Norway confirmed its first case, a person who had returned from China. Pakistan confirmed its first case, a 22-year-old man from Sindh province who had traveled to Iran, and also confirmed a second case with no further details. Romania confirmed its first case. Russia confirmed three more cases, who were passengers on the cruise ship  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number to five. Singapore confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 93. Spain confirmed five more cases, including a man who was hospitalized in Seville after testing positive, bringing the total number to 12. This was the first confirmed case in the southern region of Andalusia.  Another case was later confirmed in the Canary Islands. South Korea confirmed 169 more cases, bringing the total number to 1,146.  It also recorded an additional death, increasing its total to 12. In the afternoon, the country reported 115 more infections, bringing the total number to 1,261. Sweden reported a new case, the second in the country. Taiwan confirmed an additional case, bringing its total to 32. Thailand confirmed three additional cases, bringing its total to 40 cases. The United States confirmed three new cases one being a domestic case in California with no travel history, and the other two being former passengers aboard  Diamond Princess bringing the total number to 60. Diamond Princess  saw 14 new confirmed cases, taking it to 705 cases aboard the ship. It is estimated that more passengers on the ship could be infected than previously thought. For the first time, a case was reimported back to China from another country; the patient traveled from Iran. 

27 February::WHO  Situation Report 38: Austria reported its third case, the first in Vienna. Canada confirmed the first human-to-human transmission in Toronto, the husband of the woman who had traveled to Iran, bringing the total cases in the country to 13.  The country later reported a presumptive case in Quebec. The patient had travel history to Iran. This presumptive case was the first case in Quebec, bringing the total number to 14. China reported through the National Health Commission 433 new cases and 29 new deaths across the mainland. Of those, 409 cases and 26 deaths were in Hubei province. Denmark confirmed its first case, a person who had recently returned from Italy. Estonia reported its first case, an Iranian man who had recently returned from Iran. France reported 20 new cases, raising the number of cases in the country to 38. Germany saw another case reported in North Rhine-Westphalia.  In the evening, it was reported that there were 14 new cases in the same state, bringing Germany's total to 40 cases.   The cases rose to 45 by the end of the day. Greece confirmed two more cases, the first patient's daughter and another woman in Athens, bringing the total to three cases. Hong Kong reported two additional cases, both women infected after visiting a Hong Kong temple at the center of a COVID-19 cluster. This took the total number of cases to 93. Iran reported that 22 people had now died amid 141 people infected by the virus.  The chairman of Iran's National Security Committee,  Mojtaba Zolnour , announced he had been infected.  Iran later announced an increase to 26 deaths and 245 cases.  The country's vice president for Women and Family Affairs  Masoumeh Ebtekar  also tested positive. Iraq reported a new case associated with traveling to Iran, the sixth in the country and the first in Baghdad.  A seventh case was confirmed in Kirkuk later in the day. Israel reported an additional case, a person who had traveled to Italy, bringing the total number to three. Italy reported that two more people had died, bringing the death toll to 14. The Civil Protection agency reported the number of confirmed cases had risen from 420 to 528.  Later in the day, it was announced that three more people had died, taking the death toll to 17, and the total confirmed cases had risen to 650.  At the end of the day, the total cases rose to 655.  Mayor Pietro Mazzocchi of  Borgonovo Val Tidone  was diagnosed with the virus. Japan reported 17 new cases. It confirmed a case involving a recovered patient being  reinfected  with COVID-19. The total number of local cases had increased to 186.  An eighth person died, a Japanese man in his 80s, who lived in the northernmost island of Hokkaido.  Additionally, Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  asked that all elementary, middle, and high schools shall be closed until late March. Kuwait confirmed the total cases in the country were 43, with all having recently traveled to Iran. Lebanon reported a third case with the person having traveled from Iran. Malaysia confirmed an additional case, a woman who had recently traveled to Japan, bringing the total to 23. That made it the first case to be imported from Japan. The Netherlands reported its first case, a person who had been skiing in Italy. Nigeria confirmed its first case, an Italian citizen who worked in Nigeria and returned from Milan. It was the first case of coronavirus in sub-Saharan Africa. Norway confirmed three additional cases, two in Oslo and one in B rum, taking the total to four cases.  Two returned from Italy and one from Iran. Oman reported an additional case, raising the country's total to five.  An additional case was confirmed later that day, who had traveled from Iran. San Marino confirmed its first case. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 96. South Korea reported 334 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,595.  Later, 171 additional cases were confirmed, taking the total number to 1,766. Spain saw a new case reported in Valencia  and two more in Madrid.  A further case was reported in Barcelona.  By the early evening, the total number of confirmed cases had risen to 22.  In the evening, six additional cases were declared in Valencia. Sweden had five new cases confirmed, one in the Uppsala region,  three people in V stra G taland, and one in the Stockholm region. Switzerland reported more cases, with a total of six confirmed cases across five cantons.  By the end of the day, a total of eight cases had been detected. The United Arab Emirates reported the recovery of two patients, and six new cases, bringing the total number to 19.  It also saw two suspected cases attached to the UAE Tour, a cycling event, which resulted in the cancellation of the event. The United Kingdom confirmed two more cases, contracted in Italy and Tenerife, taking the total to 15 cases.  In the evening, a 16th case was confirmed, and the first case in Northern Ireland, someone who had come from Italy via Dublin. 

28 February::WHO  Situation Report 39: Australia confirmed one additional case, a former  Diamond Princess  passenger now in Western Australia, bringing the total number to 24. Azerbaijan confirmed its first case, a Russian national who recently returned from Iran. Bahrain announced three new cases, raising the total to 36.  An additional two cases were later confirmed, both having recently traveled from Iran, one being a Saudi Arabian national. Belarus confirmed its first case, a student from Iran. Canada reported two positive cases in Ontario. One of them had travel history to Iran, while the other had visited Egypt.  The total number of cases rose to 16. China confirmed an additional 327 new confirmed cases, of which 318 were in the province of Hubei. There were 44 deaths of which 41 were in Hubei, one in Xinjiang and two in Beijing. Croatia confirmed two new cases, one being the girlfriend of the first patient and the other the wife of the third patient, bringing the total number to five. Denmark confirmed an additional case, bringing the total number to two. Finland confirmed an additional case, taking it to three confirmed cases. France announced two new cases, bringing the total number to 40.  The total number of cases later rose to 57. Georgia confirmed a second case, a citizen who had returned from Italy. More than 18 people were reported to be in quarantine. Germany reported cases totaling  almost 60 , according to a Health Ministry official. Greece confirmed an additional case, who had recently traveled to Italy. This was the country's fourth case. Hong Kong confirmed an additional case, a patient from  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number to 94. Iceland confirmed its first case, a person who had returned from Italy. Iran confirmed 143 new cases and six more deaths, with a total of 388 cases and 32 deaths.  Four MP's had tested positive, an increase from the two who had already announced their cases. Iraq confirmed an eighth case, a woman who recently came back from Iran. Israel confirmed an additional case, the second in the country the wife of the previous person diagnosed.  Five additional cases were later confirmed, taking the total to seven. One of the new cases was an Israeli who had recovered in Japan, who was diagnosed again after returning. Italy reported that four more people had died, bringing the death toll to 21. The number of confirmed cases had risen from 650 (the day before) to 888. Japan announced an additional death, bringing the total to five.  They also confirmed 12 new cases in Hokkaido. Japan also later confirmed another death regarding a British native on board  Diamond Princess , marking the first foreign victim on the cruise ship. Kuwait announced two additional cases, taking its total to 45. Lebanon confirmed its fourth case, a Syrian man, the first case of local transmission. Lithuania confirmed its first case, a woman who returned from Italy. Malaysia confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 25. Mexico confirmed its first two cases, one in Mexico City and one in Culiac n.  Both cases were individuals who recently returned from a trip to Bergamo, Italy. Monaco saw the government confirm the first case in the principality. New Zealand confirmed its first case, an individual who had returned from Iran to Auckland earlier in the week. The Netherlands confirmed its second case. Norway confirmed two other cases, with the second having serious implications. First, it was confirmed that a person from Bergen, who returned from Italy, tested positive. Later, it was confirmed that a person working at Ullevaal Hospital in Oslo also tested positive, after having returned from Italy. According to standard recommendation, he was told to go to work, since he had no symptoms, and he had worked with a significant number of patients for a couple of days before testing positive. Norway now has six confirmed cases. Romania confirmed two new cases, both having recently returned from Italy. Singapore confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 98. Spain confirmed more cases, taking it to 32 cases with five in Madrid, eight in Comunidad Valenciana, six in the Canary Islands, six in Catalonia, one in the Balearic Islands, six in Andaluc a, one in Arag n, and two in Castilla y Le n. South Korea confirmed 256 new cases, bringing the total number of infected in the country to 2,022. Of the new cases, 182 were in Daegu.  There were three new deaths, raising the number to 16.  Later, the number of cases there shot up by 315, bringing the total number to 2,337. Sweden confirmed four more cases, raising the country's total to 11. Switzerland's cases increased to 15. Taiwan confirmed two additional cases, taking its total to 34. Thailand confirmed an additional case, taking the overall number to 41. The United Kingdom reported its 17th and 18th cases, in people who had traveled from Iran, and its 19th case and the first in Wales, being someone who had traveled from Northern Italy.  In the evening, the 20th case was confirmed, the first case of being passed on in the UK from an unknown source. The United States confirmed four more cases, including two former passengers of  Diamond Princess .  Washington state authorities later confirmed two additional presumptive cases, bringing its total to 66. One had recently returned from South Korea, and the other case was unrelated and locally acquired. SARS-CoV-2 was detected for the first time in tears and conjunctival secretions (pink eye) of a patient. This was only detected in one out of the 30 patients that were tested. The excerpt from the study stated,  In the study of this small sample, we used conjunctival test paper to obtain tears and conjunctival secretions of 30 patients for standard RT-PCR assay. Only one patient with conjunctivitis found viral RNA in his tear fluid and conjunctival secretion twice. 

29 February::WHO  Situation Report 40: Australia confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 25. Austria confirmed four new cases, bringing the total to 10. Azerbaijan reported two new cases, both recently returned from Iran. Bahrain confirmed three additional cases, all who had traveled to Iran, bringing the total number to 41. Brazil confirmed the second case, a 32-year-old man who arrived from Milan, Italy. Canada confirmed four new cases (three in Ontario) and one in  British Columbia , bringing the total to 20. China confirmed 427 new cases 423 of which were in Hubei province bringing the total number to 79,251. Deaths increased by 47, to a total of 2,835. Croatia confirmed its sixth case, a close relative of the third and fifth patients. Denmark confirmed its third case, a person recently returned from a trip to Munich, Germany, where he came into contact with someone who was later determined to have the virus. Ecuador confirmed its first case, a woman who recently returned from a trip to Spain. France confirmed 16 additional cases, bringing the total number to 73.  Additional cases were confirmed, taking the number to 100. Georgia confirmed one new case, taking the total number to three. Germany's confirmed cases increased to 66. Greece confirmed three new cases, two of which were close contacts of a previous confirmed case, the other had traveled to Italy. Iran confirmed 205 new cases, and nine new deaths, bringing the total to 593 infected and 43 dead. Iraq confirmed five new cases, bringing the total number to 13. Four of them were in Baghdad and the fifth was in Babil province. Ireland confirmed its first case, associated with travel to northern Italy. Italy confirmed 239 new cases and eight new deaths, bringing it to 1,128 cases and 29 deaths. Lebanon confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number of cases to seven. Luxembourg confirmed its first case. Mexico confirmed two more cases, one man in the State of Mexico who participated in the same trip to Bergamo, Italy, that the first two infected made,  and a woman in Coahuila who traveled to Milan, Italy, between January and February,  bringing the total to four. The Netherlands confirmed four additional cases, bringing the total to six.  A seventh case was later confirmed. Norway confirmed nine new cases, bringing the total to 15. Pakistan confirmed two mores cases, bringing its total to four. One is a person from Karachi who had recently traveled to Iran, and the other case was in the Federal Area. Qatar confirmed its first case, a Qatari national who had recently returned from Iran. Singapore confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 102. South Korea confirmed 594 more cases, bringing the total number to 2,931.  This later increased with another 219 cases declared, bringing the total number to 3,150. Another death was confirmed, bringing the total to 17.  The first reinfection case was also confirmed. Spain confirmed 26 more cases, bringing the total number to 58. Sweden reported two new cases, taking the total to 13. Switzerland confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 18. Taiwan confirmed five more cases, bringing the total number to 39. Thailand confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 42. The United Kingdom confirmed three additional cases, taking the total to 23. The United States confirmed its first death, a man from  Washington  near the  Seattle  area.  The country also reported two more cases, bringing the total number to 68. 
1 March::WHO  Situation Report 41: Armenia confirmed its first case, a 29-year-old man returning from Iran. Australia confirmed the first death in the country, a 78-year-old man from the cruise ship  Diamond Princess . The Czech Republic confirmed the first three cases in the country, individuals that had traveled from Northern Italy. The Dominican Republic confirmed its first case, a 62-year-old Italian tourist. Saint Barth lemy confirmed its first case. Saint Martin confirmed its first case. San Marino confirmed seven more cases, bringing the total number to eight. The first death was also confirmed. Scotland confirmed its first case. Thailand confirmed its first death from the coronavirus, a 35-year-old retail worker who also had  dengue fever . The first cases in Rhode Island, Florida, and New York, United States were confirmed. 

2 March::WHO  Situation Report 42: Andorra confirmed its first case. India reported its first cases since the initial outbreak. One case was detected in New Delhi, while the other was from  Telangana . Another confirmed case was later detected in Jaipur, bringing the total number to six. Indonesian president  Joko Widodo  announced the first two confirmed cases in the country.  The two people contracted the virus from a Japanese individual in Depok, who later tested positive in Malaysia. The mother and daughter are now hospitalized in North Jakarta. Jordan confirmed its first case. Latvia confirmed its first case, a woman who had flown from Milan to Riga through Munich. Morocco confirmed its first case. Portugal confirmed its first two cases, one of whom had returned from Italy, the other from Spain. Saudi Arabia confirmed their first case in a citizen who had traveled to Iran and returned to Saudi Arabia via Bahrain. Senegal confirmed its first case, where the person had recently traveled from France. Tunisia confirmed its first case. 

3 March::WHO  Situation Report 43: Argentina confirmed its first case, a person who had recently returned from Italy. Chile confirmed its first case. Gibraltar confirmed its first case, a person who had traveled back from Northern Italy via Malaga airport. Liechtenstein confirmed its first case. Spain confirmed the first death in the country, a person who died on 13 February, making him the earliest recorded death in Europe.  The country reported 31 more cases, bringing the total number to 151. Sweden confirmed 15 more cases, bringing the total number to 30. Ukraine confirmed its first case, a person having traveled from Italy via Romania. 

4 March::WHO  Situation Report 44: The Faroe Islands confirmed its first case. Hong Kong confirmed a case of human-to-animal transmission involving a pet dog. Hungary confirmed its first cases, two Iranian students who were asymptomatic. Iraq confirmed its first death from the coronavirus. Cases in Japan had topped the 1,000 mark (including 706 cases on the cruise ship  Diamond Princess  which the World Health Organization classifies as being located  on an international conveyance  and not in Japan) with the first confirmed case in Yamaguchi prefecture. Poland confirmed its first case. Slovenia confirmed its first case, a person who had traveled through Italy. 

5 March::WHO  Situation Report 45: Bosnia and Herzegovina confirmed the first two cases in the country. Egypt confirmed the first case in an Egyptian national, who had recently traveled from Serbia via France. Martinique confirmed its first two cases. Palestine reported its first cases in the West Bank city of Bethlehem. Seven staff at a hotel were reported to be infected by visiting tourists from Greece.  These tourists were the same ones who the Israeli bus driver was infected from. South Africa records its first case in the KwaZulu-Natal province. Switzerland reported its first death from the virus. The United Kingdom's total increased to 90. The UK also later confirmed the total number of cases had increased further up to 116, as well as recording the first death in the country, an older person with underlying health conditions. 

6 March::WHO  Situation Report 46: Bhutan announced its first case, an American tourist who had recently also traveled to India after leaving the United States on 18 February. Cameroon confirmed its first case, a French citizen. Colombia confirmed its first case, a woman who recently traveled from Italy. Costa Rica had confirmed its first case involving an American from New York. Peru confirmed its first case. Serbia confirmed its first case. 

7 March::WHO  Situation Report 47: Argentina confirmed its first death, also the first in South America, a 64-year-old man who had traveled to Paris. Maldives confirmed its first cases, two overseas hotel employees. Malta reported its first three cases, an Italian family who were residents in Malta. They had gone on holiday to Northern Italy and had been in self-quarantine before being tested for the coronavirus. They were now in isolation at  Mater Dei Hospital . Moldova confirmed its first case, a person taken to hospital after arriving on a flight from Italy. 

8 March::WHO  Situation Report 48: Albania confirmed the first two cases in the country. Bangladesh confirmed its first three cases, two people who had come from Italy separately, and a contact of one of the cases. Bulgaria confirmed its first four cases. Egypt confirmed its first death (and the first death in Africa) a German national who was hospitalized on 1 March and then suffered respiratory failure caused by acute pneumonia on 7 March. 

9 March::WHO  Situation Report 49: Brunei's health ministry confirmed a first case of a local man who returned from Kuala Lumpur on 3 March. Symptoms began on 7 March and preliminary tests indicated the person was positive. Canada recorded its first COVID-19-related death. Cyprus confirmed its first two cases. Panama announced its first COVID-19 case, a 40-year-old Panamanian woman from Spain. 

10 March::WHO  Situation Report 50: Bolivia confirmed its first cases, two women who had been in Italy, arriving in the country without showing any symptoms. Burkina Faso confirmed its first cases with two infections, a couple who had returned from France in February. The Democratic Republic of Congo reported its first case, a foreigner who flew into Kinshasa from Belgium who tested positive on arrival and was isolated.  It was later confirmed by the Ministry of Health that the information they had originally released was incorrect and that the first case was rather a Congolese citizen returning from France, who had contacted the Health Services two days after his arrival in Congo and had been quarantined in a local neighborhood. Jamaica confirmed its first case, a Jamaican national who traveled to the country from the United Kingdom. Mongolia announced its first COVID-19 case. Northern Cyprus reported its first case, a 65-year-old German woman who was visiting as a tourist. Turkey confirmed its first case. 

11 March::WHO  Situation Report 51: Cuba confirmed its first three cases. French Polynesia reported its first case. The person was  Maina Sage , a member of the French National Assembly. Guyana confirmed its first case, from a 52-year-old woman suffering from underlying health conditions, including diabetes and hypertension.  The woman died at the Georgetown Public Hospital. Honduras confirmed its first two cases, one from Spain and one from Switzerland. R union confirmed its first case. In the United States, the  Utah Jazz 's  Rudy Gobert  and  Donovan Mitchell  were diagnosed with the illness. As a result, the  NBA  suspended the entire season after the night's games. The Utah Jazz vs. Oklahoma City Thunder game was postponed after doctors reported Gobert had the illness.  In addition, Michigan confirmed its first two cases, raising concerns on the automobile industry's survival. The  World Health Organization  declared COVID-19 a pandemic.  The declaration followed extensive criticism that the WHO response had been weak and inappropriately favorable towards the government of China. 

12 March::WHO  Situation Report 52: Algeria confirmed five additional cases and the first death. In Australia, a team member of  McLaren  tested positive for the coronavirus, throwing the  2020 Australian Grand Prix  into disarray. India confirmed its first death, a 76-year-old Indian national with existing health conditions, who had recently returned from Saudi Arabia. Malaysia confirmed its first sporadic case after 600 tests.  Nine new cases were later confirmed, bringing the total number to 158. Norway reported its first death. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines confirmed its first case. 

13 March::WHO  Situation Report 53: Antigua and Barbuda confirmed its first case. Aruba confirmed its first two cases, people who traveled in from New York. Cura ao reported its first case, a Dutch tourist. Ethiopia confirmed its first case. Gabon confirmed its first case. Ghana confirmed its first two cases, a Norwegian Embassy official and a Turkish citizen. Guadeloupe confirmed its first case, a citizen who recently returned from France. Guatemala confirmed its first case, a traveler from Italy. Guinea reported its first case, an employee of the EU delegation. Kazakhstan confirmed its first two cases, which were also the first in Central Asia. Kenya confirmed its first case, a Kenyan national who had returned from the United States via London. Kosovo confirmed its first two cases. Puerto Rico confirmed its first three cases, a 71-year-old man and an Italian couple, aged 68 and 70. Saint Lucia confirmed its first case, a 63-year-old woman who had traveled to the UK. Sudan confirmed its first case and first death, a man in his 50s who traveled to the United Arab Emirates. Suriname confirmed its first case. The US Virgin Islands confirmed the first case in the territory. Uruguay confirmed its first four cases, all of them having traveled from Milan, Italy. Venezuela confirmed its first two cases, one a traveler from the United States, and the second who had traveled from Spain. 

14 March::WHO  Situation Report 54: Central African Republic confirmed its first case. Congo Republic confirmed its first case, a person who had traveled from France. Equatorial Guinea confirmed its first case, a 42-year-old woman who returned from Madrid. Eswatini confirmed its first case, a 33-year-old woman, who traveled to the United States and then Lesotho before returning home to Eswatini. Mauritania confirmed its first case. Mayotte confirmed its first case. Namibia confirmed its first cases, two tourists visiting the country. Rwanda confirmed its first case. Seychelles reported its first two cases. 

15 March::WHO  Situation Report 55: Guam confirmed its first three cases, two people who arrived from Manila and one other person with no recent travel history. Ireland confirmed 40 new cases, the largest to date. 169 total confirmed cases and 2 deaths.  The government requested all pubs and bars to close permanently from midnight, in advance of the then-upcoming 17 March Saint Patricks Day public holiday. Uzbekistan confirmed its first case, a citizen who had returned from France. 

16 March::WHO  Situation Report 56: Benin confirmed its first case, a 49-year-old man who had traveled to Belgium and Burkina Faso. Greenland confirmed its first case. Liberia confirmed its first case. Somalia confirmed its first case. Tanzania confirmed its first case. 

17 March::WHO  Situation Report 57: Barbados reported its first two cases, people who recently returned from the US. Gambia reported its first case. Montenegro reported its first two cases. One infected was from  Podgorica , and the other from  Ulcinj .  Montenegro was the last country in Europe without any confirmed cases. Sint Maarten confirmed its first case, a 26-year-old local resident who traveled to UK and Miami. 

18 March::WHO  Situation Report 58: Bermuda confirmed its first two cases. Djibouti confirmed its first case. El Salvador confirmed its first case. Kyrgyzstan reported its first cases, three people who had recently returned from a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. Mauritius announced its first three cases. Montserrat confirmed its first case, a person who visited the United Kingdom. New Caledonia confirmed its first two cases. Nicaragua confirmed its first case, imported from Panama. Zambia reported its first two cases. 

19 March::WHO  Situation Report 59: Angola confirmed its first case, a Chinese businessman. Chad confirmed its first case, a Moroccan national who had traveled to the country from Cameroon. Fiji  confirmed its first case, a 27-year-old flight attendant. Haiti reported its first two cases. The Isle of Man confirmed its first case, a person who recently returned from Spain. Niger confirmed its first case, a local 36-year-old man who traveled a lot to Togo, Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Burkina Faso due to work. 

20 March::WHO  Situation Report 60: Cape Verde confirmed its first case, a 62-year-old English tourist. East Timor confirmed its first case. Madagascar reported its first three cases. Papua New Guinea confirmed its first case. Uganda confirmed its first case. Zimbabwe confirmed its first case. 

21 March::WHO  Situation Report 61: The  land Islands confirmed their first two cases. Eritrea confirmed its first case, a 39-year-old Eritrean national with permanent residence in Norway. Transnistria confirmed its first two cases. 

22 March::WHO  Situation Report 62: Dominica confirmed its first case, a 54-year-old man who recently arrived from the United Kingdom. Grenada confirmed its first case, a woman who recently traveled to the UK. Mozambique confirmed its first case. Syria recorded its first case. 

23 March::WHO  Situation Report 63: Belize confirmed its first case, a local resident who recently returned from Los Angeles. Myanmar confirmed its first two cases. Turks and Caicos Islands confirmed their first case. 

24 March::WHO  Situation Report 64: Easter Island reports its first case. Laos reported its first two cases. Libya confirmed its first case. 

25 March::WHO  Situation Report 65: The British Virgin Islands reported their first two cases. Guinea-Bissau reported its first two cases. Mali reported its first two cases. Saint Kitts and Nevis reported its first two cases. 

26 March::WHO  Situation Report 66: Anguilla reported its first two cases. 

27 March::WHO  Situation Report 67: Ireland confirmed 302 new cases, the largest increase to date, and three deaths. This gave a total of 2,121 confirmed cases and 22 deaths. The government issued strict guidelines beginning at midnight where people had to stay at home with specific exceptions, such as essential employees for essential businesses. Notably, residents would be allowed to leave solely for going to the grocery store, pharmacy, for a medical appointment, or for exercise with a maximum 2 km (1.2 mi) radius from their house where social distancing must be practised and exercise time must be kept short. Italy confirmed a new highest single-day death toll with 919 deaths (surpassing Spain's total released earlier in the day), increasing the country's total to 9,134. Overall, confirmed cases of infection rose by 5,959 to 86,498. Spain recorded the highest single-day death toll worldwide to date, with 769 deaths. There were now 64,059 confirmed cases, up from 56,188. The United States confirmed at least 101,242 cases based on figures collated by  Johns Hopkins University , overtaking China (81,782) and Italy (80,589). The US death toll surpassed 1,500. News reports citing a government document reported that a 57-year-old woman, who tested positive for the  coronavirus disease  on 10 December 2019 and was described in  The Wall Street Journal  on 6 March 2020, may have been  patient zero  in the coronavirus pandemic. The first oil refinery shutdowns in India and Europe were announced while global refinery runs dropped in response to plunging demand as countries worldwide implemented lockdowns. 

28 March::WHO  Situation Report 68: Italy surpassed 10,000 deaths attributed to the virus. 

30 March::WHO  Situation Report 70: Botswana recorded its first three cases. In the United States, New York's official death toll exceeded 1,000. 

31 March::WHO  Situation Report 71: Burundi confirmed its first two cases. Sierra Leone confirmed its first case. Sint Eustatius confirmed its first two cases. Somaliland confirmed its first two cases. 
1 April::WHO  Situation Report 72: Albania reported 16 new cases, bringing the total number to 259. Canada reported 1,140 new cases, bringing the total number to 9,731.  Furthermore, the province of Quebec had reported 449 new cases. France reported 509 new deaths in the past 24 hours, bringing the total number to 4,023. Germany reported 5,435 new cases, bringing the total number to 67,366. The country also reported 149 deaths, bringing the total to 732. Hong Kong reported that a cat has tested positive for the coronavirus, bringing the total number of infected pets in the territory to three. Indonesia reported 149 new cases and 21 deaths, bringing the total number of cases to 1,677 and deaths to 157, while 103 had recovered. Iran confirmed 2,987 new cases, bringing the total to 47,593. Iran also reported 138 deaths, bringing the total to 3,036. The country also reported that 15,473 had recovered from COVID-19. Ireland confirmed 212 new cases, significantly fewer new cases than 31 March, and 14 deaths. This gave a total of 3,447 confirmed cases and 85 deaths.  About 1,500 people were being tested per day at this stage. Italy reported 4,782 new cases, bringing the total number to 110,574. The country also reported 727 deaths, bringing the total to 13,155. Libya reported two new cases, bringing the total to 10. Malaysia confirmed 142 new cases, bringing the total to 2,908. The country's health authorities also confirmed that 108 patients had recovered. New Zealand confirmed that 61 new cases (47 confirmed and 14 probable) were reported, bringing the total to 708 (647 confirmed and 61 probable). Palestine confirmed 17 new cases (15 in the West Bank and two in Gaza), bringing the total to 134. Panama confirmed 136 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,317. Several new deaths were reported, bringing the total number to 32. The Philippines reported 227 new cases and eight more deaths, bringing the total number of cases to 2,311 and deaths to 96. Qatar reported 54 new cases, bringing the total to 835. Singapore confirmed 74 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,000. South Korea confirmed 101 new cases and three new deaths, bringing the total to 9,887 and 165 respectively.  Also, 5,560 people had recovered. Spain reported 864 deaths and 102,136 infections. Turkey reported 2,348 new cases and 63 new deaths, bringing the total number of deaths to 277. Ukraine confirmed 149 new cases and three new deaths, bringing the total number to 794 and the number of deaths to 20. The United Kingdom reported 563 deaths within the past 24 hours, bringing the total number to 2,352. The country's youngest reported person to die of the virus was a 13-year-old boy named Ismail Mohamed Abdulwahab. The United States confirmed a total of over 200,000 cases and 4,076 deaths.  The  United States Department of State  reported the deaths of two local employees at US diplomatic missions in Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo. 

2 April::WHO  Situation Report 73: Belgium reported a total of 1,001 deaths and 15,348 cases. Canada reported 1,554 new cases, bringing the total number to 11,285.  22 new deaths were reported, bringing the total to 127. Fiji has confirmed two cases, bringing the total number to six cases. France has reported 1,355 new daily death cases, the third most human fatality cases relative COVID-19, bringing the total death number to 5,387. Germany reported 6,156 new cases, bringing the total number to 73,522. The country also reported 140 deaths, bringing the total to 872. India had confirmed a total of 50 deaths and 1,965 cases nationwide. Iran reported 124 deaths, reaching a total of 3,160. Health authorities confirmed 50,468 infected cases. Ireland confirmed 402 new cases and 13 deaths. This gave a total of 3,894 confirmed cases and 98 deaths. Israel confirmed 31 deaths and 6,211 infected cases, with 107 in serious condition. Italy reported 760 deaths, bringing the total to 13,915. Malawi confirmed its three first cases. Malaysia confirmed 208 new cases, taking the total number of cases to 3,116. Five deaths were also reported, taking the death toll to 50. New Zealand confirmed 89 new cases (76 confirmed and 13 probable), bringing the total to 797. Of the cases, 92 had recovered and 13 were hospitalized. The Netherlands reported 166 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,339. The country also reported 14,697 cases. Palestine confirmed 21 new cases, bringing the total to 155. Panama reported 158 new cases and 5 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 1,475 and 37, respectively. Philippines reported 11 new deaths and 332 new cases, bringing the total number of deaths to 107 and infected cases to 2,633. Russia reported 771 new cases, bringing the total to 3,548. A total of 30 people had died. Singapore confirmed its fourth death.  At the same time, 49 new cases were confirmed, bringing the total number to 1,049. South Korea confirmed 89 new cases and four new deaths, bringing the total to 9,976 and 169, respectively. Spain reported a total of 10,003 deaths and 110,238 cases. Switzerland's death toll rose to 432 and reported 18,267 positive tests. Ukraine confirmed 103 new cases and two new deaths, bringing the total number of cases to 897 and the total number of deaths to 22. The United Kingdom reported 569 deaths, bringing the total to 2,921. Health authorities reported that 163,194 people had been tested with 33,718 testing positive. The United States confirmed a total of over 225,000 cases and 5,345 deaths. Zambia reported three new cases, bringing the total to 39. Zambia also reported its first death. There were over 1,000,000 confirmed cases and 50,000 confirmed deaths in the world. Rachael Lynch , a  goalkeeper  of  Australia women's national field hockey team , has tested positive for COVID-19. 

3 April::WHO  Situation Report 74: Albania reported 27 new cases with a total death toll of 17. Canada confirmed 1,264 new cases, bringing the total number to 12,549, and 127 deaths. China confirmed four new deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,322. China also reported 40 asymptomatic cases of the coronavirus. Egypt confirmed 120 new cases, bringing the total to 985. Egypt also reported eight new deaths, bringing the total to 66. The Falkland Islands reported its first case. France reported 588 new deaths, bringing the total number of hospital deaths to 5,091. This figure excluded the 1,416 deaths in rest homes, bringing the total death toll to 6,507. Greece reported a total of 1,425 cases and 53 deaths. India reported 1,965 total cases, with many cases being traced to a  tablighi jamaat  in  New Delhi  held in March. Indonesia's death roll rose to 170 with a total of 1,790 confirmed infections. Iran reported 134 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,294. Official figures claimed that 53,183 were infected and that 17,935 had recovered. Ireland confirmed 424 new cases and 22 deaths. This gave a total of 4,273 confirmed cases and 120 deaths. Iraq officially reported 772 cases and 54 confirmed deaths. This figure had been disputed by three doctors, a health ministry official, and a senior political official, who claimed that thousands had been infected. Italy confirmed 766 new deaths, bringing the total death toll to 14,681. The country also confirmed 2,339 new cases, bringing the total number to 85,388. Kyrgyzstan reported its first death from the coronavirus. Latvia confirmed its first coronavirus-related death, a 99-year-old woman with various underlying chronic conditions. Malaysia confirmed 217 new cases, bringing the country's total to 3,333. The country also reported three more deaths, bring the total death toll to 53. The Netherlands reported 1,026 new cases, bringing the total number to 15,723. The country also confirmed 148 more deaths, bringing the total to 1,487. Panama reported 198 new cases and four new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 1,673 and 41, respectively. New Zealand confirmed 71 new confirmed and probable cases, bringing the total to 868. Palestine confirmed 32 cases, bringing the total to 193. Singapore confirmed its fifth death.  At the same time, 65 new cases were confirmed, bringing the total number to 1,114. South Korea reported 86 new cases and five new deaths, bringing the total to 10,062 and 174, respectively.  Also, 27,000 people were under self-quarantine. Spain reported 950 deaths, bringing the total to 10,000. Sweden reported 612 new cases, bringing the total to around 6,000. The country's death toll reached nearly 333. Ukraine reported 175 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,072, as well as five new deaths, bringing the total number to 27. The United Kingdom reported 684 deaths, bringing the total to 3,605. UK health authorities confirmed that 173,784 had been tested with 38,168 being positive. The United States reported 26,000 new cases, bringing the total to 228,000. The US death toll reached 950, bringing the total to 5,374.  New York state reported 562 deaths, bringing the death toll to 2,935. According to figures released by  Johns Hopkins University , 58,773 people had died as a result of COVID-19 and there were at least 1,094,068 confirmed cases. 

4 April::WHO  Situation Report 75: Albania reported 29 new cases, bringing the total to 333 with a total of 18 deaths. Canada reported 1,469 new cases, bringing the total number to 14,018. China reported 19 new cases (18 imported and one in Wuhan), bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 81,639. China also reported four new deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,326. Fiji had confirmed five new cases, bringing the total number to 12. France recorded nearly 5,400 deaths, including 884 previously unreported cases in rest homes. Georgia confirmed its first death, with the country reporting a total of 157 cases. Germany reported 6,082 new cases, bringing the total to 85,778. The country also reported 1,158 deaths. Indonesia confirmed 106 new cases, bringing the total to 2,092. The country reported 10 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 191. Iran confirmed 55,743 cases of whom 4,103 were in critical condition. The country also reported 158 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,542. Ireland confirmed 331 new cases and 17 deaths. This gave a total of 4,604 confirmed cases and 137 deaths. Israeli authorities reported a total number of 7,428 cases and 41 deaths. Italy confirmed 766 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 14,681. Italy reported 4,585 new cases, bringing the total to 119,827. Japan reported 118 new cases in Tokyo, raising the total to about 3,000. The country also had reported a total of 73 deaths. Kuwait reported its first death. The country also reported 62 new cases, increasing the total to 479 cases. Malaysia reported 150 new cases, bringing the total to 3,486. Malaysia also recorded four new deaths, bringing the total to 57. The Netherlands confirmed 164 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,651. Panama reported 128 new cases and five new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 1,801 and 46, respectively. New Zealand confirmed 82 new cases (50 confirmed and 32 probable), bringing the total number to 950. It was reported that 127 people had recovered and that over 3,600 people had been tested on Friday. The Philippines reported 76 new cases, bringing the total to 3,094. The country also reported 8 new deaths, bringing the total to 144. Portugal confirmed a total of 266 deaths and 10,524 cases. Qatar reported 250 new cases, bringing the total to 1,213. Also, 16 people had recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 109. Singapore confirmed its sixth death.  At the same time, 75 new cases were confirmed, bringing the total number to 1,189. South Korea confirmed 94 new cases and three new deaths, bringing the total to 10,156 and 177, respectively. Spain reported 809 new deaths, bring the total death toll to 11,744. The number of confirmed cases rose to 124,736. Switzerland's number of infected cases rose to 20,278 and the death toll to 540. Turkey confirmed 76 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 501. The country also reported a total of 23,934 cases. Also, 786 patients had recovered while 1,311 remained in intensive care. Ukraine reported 153 new cases and five new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 1,225 and 32, respectively. The United Kingdom reported a total death toll of 4,313. Also, 183,190 people had been tested with 41,903 positive cases being confirmed. The United States reported a total of 300,915 cases and 8,162 deaths, based on figures by  Johns Hopkins University . New York state reported 113,704 cases and a total of 3,565 deaths. In the disputed territory of Western Sahara, the first four cases were confirmed. According to Johns Hopkins University, the number of coronavirus cases worldwide exceeded 1.1 million. 

5 April::WHO  Situation Report 76: Albania reported 28 new cases, bringing the total to 361. The country reported a total of 20 deaths and 104 recoveries. Canada reported 1,495 new cases, bringing the total number to 15,513. and a total of 258 deaths. China reported 39 new cases (all but one imported) and 78 new asymptomatic cases. China reported one death. Ethiopia reported its first two deaths, a 60-year-old woman and a 56-year-old man. France reported a total of 90,848 cases.  France also reported 357 deaths, bringing the total to 8,078. There are over 28,891 hospitalised patients. Germany reported a total of 96,092 cases. Haiti reported its first death. Iran reported 150 deaths, bringing the total to 3,603. Iran has recorded a total of 58,226 cases, 22,011 recoveries, and 4,057 critical cases. Ireland confirmed 390 new cases and 21 deaths. This gave a total of 4,994 confirmed cases and 158 deaths. Italy reported a total of 124,632 cases  and new 525 deaths. Japan reported more than 130 cases in Tokyo, bringing the number of cases in the capital above 1,000. Malaysia reported 179 new cases, bringing the number of cases to 3,662. New Zealand reported 89 new cases (48 confirmed and 41 probable), bringing the total to 1,039 (870 confirmed and 169 probable). 29 recoveries were reported, bringing the total to 156. Panama reported 187 new cases and 8 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 1,988 and 54, respectively. Qatar reported 279 new cases, bringing the total to 1,604. Russia reported 658 new cases, bringing the total to 5,389. The country also reported a total of 45 deaths. Saint Pierre and Miquelon confirmed its first case. Singapore confirmed 120 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,309. This is the highest number of new cases in a day. South Korea confirmed 81 new cases and six new deaths, bringing the total to 10,237 and 183 respectively. South Sudan confirmed its first case. Spain reported 674 new deaths, bringing the total to 12,418 deaths. The country reported a total of 130,759 cases. Turkey reported 73 new deaths and 3,135 new cases, bringing the total number of deaths to 574 and the number of cases to 27,069. Ukraine reported 83 new cases and 5 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 1,308 and 37 respectively. The United Kingdom reported 621 deaths, bringing the total to 4,934. A total of 47,806 people have tested positive for the coronavirus. The United States reported a total of 311,544 cases.  New York state also reported 594 deaths, bringing the total to 4,159. Johns Hopkins University  reported that the number of global confirmed cases has passed 1.2 million with 64,753 confirmed deaths. 

6 April::WHO  Situation Report 77: The Czech Republic reported a total of 4,591 cases, 72 deaths, and 96 recoveries. Canada reported 1,154 new cases, bringing the total number to 16,667. Egypt reported 149 new cases, bringing the total to 1,322. The country reported 7 new deaths, bringing the total to 85, and 259 recoveries. Fiji has confirmed two new cases, bringing the total number to 14. France reported a total of 8,078 deaths including 6,494 hospital deaths. Germany reported 3,677 new cases, bringing the total to 95,391. Indonesia reported 218 new cases, bringing the total to 2,491. The country also reported 11 deaths, bringing the total to 209, and 192 recoveries. Iran reported a total of 3,739 deaths and 60,500 cases. Ireland confirmed 370 new cases and 16 deaths. This gave a total of 5,364 confirmed cases and 174 deaths. Italy's death toll rose by 636. The country also reported 3,599 new cases, bringing the total to 132,547. Kenya has reported a total of 158 cases and six deaths. Kosovo reported two new deaths, bringing the total death toll to 3. Malaysia reported 131 new cases, bringing the total to 3,793. Malaysian authorities also report 236 new recovered cases.  A new death was reported, bringing the death toll to 62. New Zealand reported 39 newly confirmed and 28 probable cases, bringing the total to 1,106 confirmed and probable cases. Panama reported 112 new cases and 1 new death, bringing the total numbers to 2,100 and 55, respectively. The Philippines reported 414 new cases, bringing the total to 3,660. The country also reported 11 deaths, bringing the total to 163, and 73 recoveries. Romania reported a total of 4,057 cases and 157 deaths. Russia reported 954 new cases, bringing the total to 6,343, and a total of 47 deaths. S o Tom  and Pr ncipe reported its first 4 cases. Singapore confirmed 66 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,375. Of the new cases, 35 were linked to clusters at foreign dormitories. South Korea confirmed 47 new cases and three new deaths, bringing the total to 10,284 and 186 respectively. Switzerland reported a total of 584 deaths and 21,652 cases. Thailand reported 51 new cases, bringing the total to 2,220, and three new deaths, bringing the total to 26. Turkey reported 3,148 new cases, bringing the total to 30,217, and 75 new deaths, bringing the total to 649. Ukraine reported a total of 1,319 cases and 38 deaths. The United Arab Emirates reported a total of 1,799 cases and ten deaths. The United Kingdom reported 439 new deaths, bringing the total to 5,373. The UK also reported a total of 51,608 cases. Johns Hopkins University reported a total of 10,000 deaths and 347,000 confirmed cases. A  Malayan tiger  named Nadia became the first known non-human animal in the country to test positive for COVID-19. 

7 April::WHO  Situation Report 78: Abkhazia confirmed its first case. Artsakh confirmed its first case. Brazil reported a total of 13,717 cases and 667 deaths. Canada reported 1,230 new cases, bringing the total to 17,897, and a total of 345 deaths. China reported no new coronavirus deaths for the first time since it started publishing figures on COVID-19 last year. Chinese authorities reported 32 new imported cases and 30 new asymptomatic cases, bringing the total to 1,033. Fiji reported its 15th case. France reported more than 10,000 total deaths, including 7,091 hospital deaths and 3,237 deaths in retirement homes. Germany reported 3,834 cases, bringing the total to 99,225. The country's death toll also rose by 173 to 1,607. Indonesia reported 247 new cases, bringing the total to 2,738. The country also reported 12 new deaths, bringing the total to 221. In addition, 204 people have recovered. Iran reported 2,089 new cases, bringing the total to 62,589. The country also reported 133 deaths, bringing the total to 3,872. Ireland confirmed 345 new cases and 36 deaths, the largest to date. This gave a total of 5,709 confirmed cases and 210 deaths. Malaysia reported 170 new cases, bringing the total to 3,963. Health authorities also reported one death, bringing the death toll to 63. 80 patients have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,321. New Zealand reported 54 new cases, bringing the total to 1,160. 241 people have also recovered. Philippines reported 104 new cases, bringing the total to 3,764, and 14 new deaths, bringing the total to 177. Qatar reported 225 new cases, bringing the total to 2,057, and six deaths. Russia reported 1,154 new cases, bringing the total to 7,497. The country also reported 11 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 58. Singapore confirmed 106 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,481. South Sudan reported its second case. Switzerland reported a total of 641 deaths and 22,242 cases. Turkey reported 3,892 new cases, bringing the total to 34,109. The death toll rose by 76 to 725 while the country reported a total of 150 recoveries. Ukraine reported 143 new cases and seven new deaths, bringing the totals to 1,462 and 45, respectively. According to Johns Hopkins University, over 1.3 million people globally have been affected by the coronavirus. More than 74,500 people have died while nearly 285,000 have recovered. 

8 April::WHO  Situation Report 79: Bangladesh reported a total of 218 cases and 20 deaths. Belarus reported 205 new cases, bringing the total to 1,066. The country has reported a total of 13 deaths. China reported 62 new cases (nearly all imported), bringing the total number of imported cases to 1,042. China has reported a total of 81,802 cases since the beginning of the outbreak. Canada reported 1,394 new cases, bringing the total number to 19,291. The Czech Republic reported a total of 5,000 cases and 195 deaths. Egypt reported nine new deaths, bringing the death toll to 94, and a total of 1,450 cases. Ethiopia reported a total of 52 cases and two deaths. France reported 541 new hospital deaths, bringing the death toll to 10,869. French authorities also report 7,148 people in intensive care. Germany reported 254 new deaths, bringing the total to 1,864. The country reported a total number of 103,228 cases. Indonesia reported 218 new cases, bringing the total to 2,956. Indonesia also reported 19 new deaths, taking the total to 240. 222 have recovered. Iran reported 121 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,993. The country also reported 1,997 new cases, bringing the total to 64,586. Iran also reported 3,956 infected people. Ireland confirmed 365 new cases and 25 deaths. This gave a total of 6,074 confirmed cases and 235 deaths. Israel reported 156 new cases, bringing the total to 9,400. The country also reported six new deaths, bringing the total to 71. 147 are in critical condition while 801 have recovered. Japan reported 144 new cases in Tokyo, bringing the total number of cases to 4,768. The country has reported a total of 98 deaths. Malaysia reported 156 new cases, bringing the total number to 4,119. The country also reported two more deaths, bringing a total of 65 deaths. Myanmar reported a total of 22 cases and three deaths. New Zealand reported 50 new cases (26 confirmed and 24 probable), bringing the total to 1,210. 41 new recoveries were reported, bringing the total to 282. Pakistan reported a total of 3,546 cases, 57 deaths, and 458 recoveries. Peru reported a total of 107 deaths and 2,954 confirmed cases. The Philippines reported 106 new cases, bringing the total to 3,870; five deaths, bringing the death toll to 182; and 12 new recoveries, bringing the total to 96. Poland confirmed a total of more than 5,000 cases and reported 22 new deaths, bringing the total to 435. Poland has tested 100,000 people. Russia reported 1,175 new cases, bringing the total to 8,672. Five new deaths were reported, bringing the total to 63. Singapore confirmed 142 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,623. In addition, a person was later confirmed to have COVID-19 after he died,  which was caused by a heart condition. Somalia reported its first death. Authorities also reported four new cases, bringing the total to 12. Switzerland reported a total of 705 deaths and 22,789 cases. Thailand reported three new deaths, bringing the death toll to 30. The country has a total of 2,369 cases. Turkey reported a total of 38,226 confirmed cases, 812 related deaths, and 1,846 recovered cases. Turkish health authorities have also conducted 24,9900 cases. Ukraine reported 206 new cases and 7 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 1,668 and 52, respectively. The  Emirate of Dubai , which is part of the  United Arab Emirates , reported a total of 2,659 cases and 12 deaths. The United Kingdom reported 938 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 7,097. The United States reported 400,000 confirmed cases and a total of 12,900 deaths. 

9 April::WHO  Situation Report 80: Brazil reported its first case among the  Yanomami  people in the Amazon: a 15-year-old boy. Canada reported 1,474 new cases, bringing the total number to 20,765 cases. Canadian authorities report a total of 461 deaths. Chinese authorities in the northeastern city of  Suifenhe  report 40 new cases, all returning Chinese nationals who had come from nearby Russia. Egypt reported 139 new cases, bringing the total to 1,699. Egyptian authorities also report 15 new deaths, bringing the total to 115. Hungary reported a total of 980 confirmed cases and 66 deaths. Ireland confirmed 500 new cases, the largest to date, and 28 deaths, bringing the total to 6,574 cases and 265 deaths. Malaysia reported 109 new cases and two new deaths, bringing the total number of cases and deaths to 4,228 and 67 respectively. The country also reported that 72 people are in intensive care but that 121 people have been discharged. The Netherlands reported 1,213 new cases, bringing the total to 21,762. Dutch authorities have reported a total of 2,396 deaths. New Zealand reported 29 new cases (23 confirmed and 6 probable), bringing the total to 1,239 (992 confirmed and 247 probable), and 35 new recoveries, bringing the total to 317. Pakistan has a total of 3,713 confirmed cases and 62 deaths. Russia reported 1,459 new cases, bringing the total to more than 10,000. The country also reported 13 deaths, bringing the total to 76. Singapore confirmed 287 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,910. South Korea reported 39 new cases, bringing the total to 10,423. The country also reported four deaths, bringing the total to 204. Spain reported 683 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 15,238. The country reported a total of 152,446 cases. Turkey reported 96 new deaths, bringing the total to 908. Turkey also confirmed 4,056 new cases, bringing the total to 42,282. Ukraine reported 224 new cases and 5 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 1,892 and 57 respectively. The United Kingdom reported 881 new deaths, bringing the total to 7,987. British authorities have also tested a total of 243,321 people, with 65,077 testing positive. The United States reported over 15,000 deaths linked to the coronavirus. Vietnam announces that 15,461 people including 1,000 healthcare workers linked to a coronavirus outbreak at a Hanoi hospital have all tested negative for the disease. Two new cases are confirmed in the disputed territory of Western Sahara, bringing the total to six. According to figures released by  Johns Hopkins University , there has been a total of 1,502,618 cases, 89,915 deaths, and 339,775 recoveries. 

10 April::WHO  Situation Report 81: Africa has reported a total of nearly 11,000 cases and 562 deaths. Bangladesh reported a total of 27 deaths and 424 cases. Brazil reported a total of 19,638 cases and 1,056 deaths. Brazilian health authorities also report that the infected  Yanomani  teenager has died from the coronavirus. Canada has reported 1,383 new cases, bringing the total number to 22,148. China reported 42 new cases (38 of them imported), bringing the total to 81,907. Chinese authorities also report one death, bringing the death toll to 3,336. Another 1,169 suspected cases or those who tested positive but were not showing symptoms are being monitored. More than 77,000 have recovered. Ecuador reported 2,196 new cases, bringing the total to 7,161. The country has also confirmed 297 deaths and another 311 likely deaths as the result of COVID-19. Fiji has confirmed its 16th case. France reported 987 deaths, bringing the death toll to 13,917. The  French Navy  has reported 50 cases aboard the aircraft carrier  Charles De Gaulle . Hungary reported 210 new cases, bringing the total to 1,190. The country has reported a total of 77 deaths. Iran reported 122 new deaths, bringing the total to 4,232. The country also reported 1,972 new cases, bringing the total to 68,912, with 3,969 in critical condition. Ireland confirmed 480 new cases and 25 deaths. This gave a total of 7,054 confirmed cases and 287 deaths. The  Health Service Executive  also acknowledges several other cases that have been confirmed by Germany, as previous tests had been sent to Germany, which brings the actual total to 8,089. Italy reported the death of 100 doctors. Japan reported a total of 6,003 cases and 99 deaths. Malaysia reported 118 new cases, bringing the total to 4,346 cases, and 70 deaths. Malaysia authorities also reported that 222 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,830 (or roughly 42  of patients). Mexico reported two new deaths, bringing the death toll to 194. The Netherlands reported 1,335 new cases, bringing the total to 23,907. The country reported 115 deaths, bringing the total to 2,511. New Zealand reported 44 new cases (23 confirmed and 21 probable), bringing the total to 1,283 (1,015 confirmed and 267 probable). NZ health authorities also report 56 new recoveries, bringing the total to 373. In addition, New Zealand reported its second death, a Christchurch woman in her 90s. Pakistan reported a total of 3,817 cases, 67 deaths, and 712 recoveries. The Philippines reported 119 new cases, bringing the total to 4,195. The country also reported 18 new deaths, bringing the total to 221. Russia reported 1,786 new cases, bringing the total number to 11,917. The country also reported 18 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 94. Singapore confirmed 198 new cases, bringing the total number to 2,108. Another death is also confirmed, bringing the death toll to 7. South Korea reported 27 new cases, bringing the total to 10,450. The country has a total of 208 deaths.  In addition, health authorities reported that 91 people who were thought to have recovered have shown symptoms of the coronavirus. Spain reported 4,566 new deaths, bringing the total to 15,843. The country reported 4,576 new cases, bringing the total to 157,022. Switzerland reported a total of 805 deaths and 24,308 infections. Taiwan reported two new cases, bringing the total to 382. Taiwanese authorities also reported the country's sixth death. Thailand reported 50 new cases and one death, bringing the total number of cases to 2,473 and the death toll to 33. Timor Leste reported its second case. The country had reported its first case on 21 March, who has since recovered. Turkey reported 4,747 new cases, bringing the total 47,029. The country reported 98 new deaths bringing the total to 1,006. Turkey also reported 281 recoveries, bringing the total number to 2,423. Ukraine reported 311 new cases and 12 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 2,203 and 69 respectively. The United Kingdom reported 980 new deaths (886 in England), bringing the total to 8,958 (8,114 in England). The United States has reported over 16,500 deaths.  Cook County Jail  in  Chicago  reported 450 cases among staff and inmates. Yemen confirmed its first case of coronavirus in  Hadhramaut . According to  Johns Hopkins University , there have been 1.6 million coronavirus cases, over 100,000 deaths, and 372,000 recoveries. 

11 April::WHO  Situation Report 82: Armenia reported 966 total cases and 13 total deaths. Belarus reported a total of 23 deaths and 2,226 cases. Brazil reported a total of 1,056 deaths and 19,638 cases. Canada reported 1,170 new cases, bringing the total to 23,318, and 69 new deaths, bringing the total to 600. China reported 46 new cases (including 42 involving overseas travel), bringing the total to 81,953. Chinese authorities also report three new cases, bringing the death toll to 3,339. China also reported 34 new asymptomatic cases. France reported 353 hospital deaths and 290 nursing home deaths, bringing the death toll to 13,832. Indonesia reported 330 new cases, bringing the total to 3,842. Indonesian authorities also reported 21 deaths, bringing the death toll to 237. Iran reported 1,837 new cases, bringing the total to 70,029. Iranian authorities also report 125 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,357. Ireland confirmed 553 new cases and 33 deaths. This gave a total of 8,928 confirmed cases and 320 deaths, as one previously reported death was incorrectly attributed to COVID-19. These figures include results of tests sent to Germany. Israel reported a total of 101 deaths and 10,743 cases. Of the infected, 175 are in serious condition, 129 are on ventilators, 154 in moderate condition, and 7,000 are hospitalized at home. 1,341 have recovered from the coronavirus. Italy reported 619 new deaths, bringing the total to 19,468. The country has reported a total of over 150,000 cases. Kazakhstan reported ten cases at the  Tengiz oilfield . Malaysia reported 184 new cases, bringing the total to 4,530. Health authorities have also reported three new deaths, bringing the total to 73. According to Malaysian authorities, 44  of cases have recovered. The Netherlands reported 1,316 new cases, bringing the total to 24,413. Dutch authorities report 132 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 2,643. New Zealand reported 29 new cases (20 confirmed and 9 probable), bringing the total to 1,312 (1,035 confirmed and 276 probable). The country also reported 48 new recoveries, bringing the total to 422. In addition, authorities report two new deaths, bringing the total to four. Pakistan reported 190 new cases, bringing the total to 4,788. Health authorities also reported five new deaths, bringing the total to 71. Pakistan has reported 50 patients in critical conditions and 762 recoveries. The Philippines reported 233 new cases, bringing the total to 4,428. 26 new deaths, bringing the total to 247. 17 patients have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 157. Russia reported 1,667 new cases, bringing the total to 13,584. Russian authorities also reported 12 new deaths, bringing the total to 106. Saba confirmed its first case. Singapore reported 191 new cases, bringing the total number to 2,299. The country also reported one more death, bringing the death toll to 8. Spain reported 4,830 new cases, bringing the total to 161,852. Spanish authorities also reported 510 deaths, bringing the total to 16,353. Switzerland reported a total of 831 deaths and 24,900 cases. Thailand reported two new deaths, bringing the death toll to 35. Thai authorities also report 45 new cases, bringing the total to 2,518, and 1,135 recoveries. Ukraine reported 308 new cases and 4 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 2,511 and 73 respectively. The number of recoveries (79) exceeded the number of lethal outcomes for the first time. The United Kingdom reported 917 deaths, bringing the death toll to 9,875. 269,598 have been tested with 78,991 testing positive. The United States reported a total of 20,071 deaths and 522,000 cases. New York state reported 783 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 8,600. The global death toll is now over 107,000, global infections number more than 1.7 million, and global recoveries number 396,000. 

12 April::WHO  Situation Report 83: Canada reported 1,065 new cases, bringing the total number to 24,383. and 74 new deaths, bringing the total to 674. Canadian authorities report a total of 23,719 cases. China reported 99 new cases (97 overseas cases), bringing the total to 82,052. The death toll stands at 3,339. Hong Kong has reported a total of four deaths and 1,005 cases. France reported a death toll of 14,393. Guatemala reported 16 new cases, bringing the total to 153. The country has reported a total of three deaths. Indonesia reported 399 new cases, bringing the total to 4,241. Health authorities report 42 deaths, bringing the total to 373. Iran reported 117 deaths, bringing the total to 4,474. Iranian authorities report 71,686 cases. Ireland confirmed 430 new cases and 14 deaths. There are an additional 297 positive results from Germany which were sent weeks ago. This gives a total of 9,655 confirmed cases and 334 deaths. Italy reported 431 deaths, bringing the death toll to 19,899. The country also reported 156,363 infections, of which 34,211 have recovered. Malaysia reported a total of 153 new cases, bringing the total to 4,683. Three more deaths were reported, bringing the total to 76. The Netherlands reported 1,188 new cases, bringing the total to 25,587. Dutch authorities report 94 deaths, bringing the total to 2,737. New Zealand reported 18 new cases (14 confirmed and 4 probable), bringing the total to 1,330 (1,049 confirmed and 281 probable). Health authorities also reported 49 new recoveries, bringing the total to 471. The Philippines reported 50 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 297. Authorities also reported 220 new cases, bringing the total to 4,648. 40 patients recovered, bringing the total to 197. Russia reported 2,186 new cases, bringing the total to 17,770. Russian authorities report 23 deaths, bringing the total to 130. Singapore reported 233 new cases, bringing the total number to 2,532. Somalia reported it second death:  Hirshabelle State  Justice Minister  Khalif Mumin Tohow . South Africa reported 145 new cases, bringing the total to 2,173. Spain reported 619 deaths, bringing the total to 16,972. Spanish authorities report a total of 166,019 cases. Thailand reported 33 new cases, bringing the total to 2,551. Thai authorities report three new deaths, bringing the total to 38. Turkey reported 4,789 new cases, bringing the total to 56,956. The country also reported 1,198 deaths and 3,446 recoveries. Ukraine reported 266 new cases and 10 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 2,777 and 83 respectively. Additionally, 89 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom reported 737 new deaths, bringing the total to 10,612. There are about 1.7 million global cases and over 109,000 deaths. 

13 April::WHO  Situation Report 84: The Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) report 1,894 new cases, bringing the total in Africa to 14,744. 104 deaths have been recorded, bringing the African death toll to 793. The Africa CDC reported that 52 out of 55 African countries have been affected. Australia reported a total of 63 new cases, bringing the total to 6,366. Burundi reported its first death and a total of five cases. Canada reported 1,297 new cases, bringing the total number to 25,680. and a total of 734 deaths and 24,804 cases. China reported 108 new cases, with all but ten being imported cases. France reported 574 deaths, bringing the total to 14,967. 6,821 patients remain in intensive care. Germany reported 2,537 new cases and 126 deaths, bringing the total to 123,016 and 2,799 respectively. Indonesia reported 316 new cases, bringing the total to 4,557. Japanese authorities reported 26 deaths, bringing the total to 399. Iran reported 111 new deaths, bringing the total 4,585. Iranian authorities reported 1,617 cases, bringing the total to 73,303. 3,877 remain in critical condition while 45,983. Ireland confirmed 527 new cases reported by Irish labs and 465 more confirmed cases reported by German labs. 31 deaths reported. This gives a total of 10,647 confirmed cases and 365 deaths. Israel reported 11 deaths, bringing the death toll to 116. Israeli authorities report 11,586 cases including 183 in serious condition and 132 on ventilators. Malaysia reported 134 new cases, bringing the total to 4,817. Malaysian authorities reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 77. 168 recovered, bringing the total to 2,276. New Zealand reported 19 new cases (15 confirmed and 4 probable), bringing the total to 1,349 (1,064 confirmed and 285 probable). Health authorities also reported 75 new recoveries, bringing the total to 546. NZ authorities also reported a new death, bringing the death toll to five. Russia reported 2,258 new cases. Singapore reported 386 new cases with many of these cases from dormitories, bringing the total to 2,918. Another death is confirmed, bringing the toll to 9. South Africa reported 99 new cases, taking the total to 2,272. South African authorities reported two deaths, bringing the death toll to 27. South Korea reported 25 new cases. Spain reported 517 deaths, bringing the death toll to 17,489. Spanish authorities report a total of 169,496 cases. Turkey reported 4,093 new cases including 17 prisoners, bringing the total to 61,049. Turkish authorities report 98 new deaths including three prisoners, bringing the total to 1,296. A total of 3,957 have recovered and 34,456 tests have been carried out. Ukraine reported 325 new cases (the highest number to date) and 10 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 3,102 and 93 respectively. Additionally, a total of 97 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 717 deaths, bringing the death toll 11,329. UK health authorities have reported 4,342 cases, bringing the total to 88,621. UK health authorities have conducted 18,000 tests in the last 24 hours. In the United States, the  Associated Press  reported that more than 3,600 deaths have been linked to coronavirus outbreaks in nursing homes and long-term care facilities.  New York reported 671 new deaths, bringing the state's death toll to 10,056.  According to figures released by  Johns Hopkins University , there have been 23,070 fatalities, 572,169 confirmed cases, and 42,324 recoveries in the United States. According to data release by Johns Hopkins University, the number of global coronavirus cases exceed 1.9 million, 118,500 deaths, and 500,000 recoveries.  Johns Hopkins University later revised its figures to 1.918 million cases. 

14 April::WHO  Situation Report 85: Canada has reported 1,383 new cases, bringing the total number to 27,063. China confirmed 89 new cases (86 of them imported) for 13 April, bringing the total to 82,249. No deaths have been reported. Of the new cases, 79 were reported in  Heilongjiang , which borders Russia. France reported a total death toll of 15,729 and 6,370 in intensive care. Germany reported 2,082 new cases, bringing the total to 125,098. Germany reported a total of 98 deaths. Iran reported 98 deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,683. Ireland confirmed 548 new cases reported by Irish labs and 284 more new cases reported by German labs. 11 new deaths are reported. This gives a total of 11,479 confirmed cases and 406 deaths. Italy reported 602 deaths, bringing the death toll to 21,067. Italian authorities report 2,972 new cases, bringing the total to 162,488. 3,186 remain in intensive care while 37,130 have recovered. Malaysia reported 170 new cases, bringing the total to 2,427. Malaysian authorities report that 202 patients had recovered, bringing the total to 4,987. The country also reported five deaths, bringing the death toll to 82. The Netherlands reported 868 new cases, bringing the total to 27,914. Dutch authorities report 122 deaths, bringing the death toll to 2,945. New Zealand reported 17 new cases (8 confirmed and 9 probable), bringing the total to 1,366 (1,072 confirmed and 292 probable). NZ health authorities also report 82 new recoveries, bringing the total to 628. NZ also report four new deaths, bringing the death toll to nine. Russia reported 2,774 new cases, bringing the total number to 21,012. Russian authorities report 22 deaths, bringing the total to 170. The country reported 224 recoveries, bringing the total to 1,694. Singapore reported 334 new cases with many of these cases from dormitories, bringing the total to 3,252. Another death is confirmed, bringing the toll to 10. South Korea reported 27 new cases. Spain reported 567 deaths, bringing the total to 18,056. Spanish authorities report 172,541 cases. Sweden reported a total of 1,033 deaths and 11,445 cases. Taiwan reported no new cases for the first time in a month. Taiwanese authorities have reported a total of 393 cases and six deaths. Turkey reported 4,093 new cases, bringing the total to 61,049. The country's death toll rises by 98 to 1,296. 3,957 people have recovered and 34,456 have been tested in the past 24 hours. Ukraine reported 270 new cases and 5 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 3,372 and 98 respectively. Overall, 119 patients have recovered. British nursing home company  HC-One  reported a total of 311 deaths among its residents in 232 of the firm's homes. The United States reported 2,228 deaths, bringing the total to above 28,300. The country has reported over 600,000 cases.  The  State Department  reported its first death among staff members at its headquarters in Washington, bringing the death toll in its global workforce to five. According to figures released by  Johns Hopkins University , there are about 1.93 million coronavirus cases, 120,000 deaths, and 450,000 recoveries worldwide. 

15 April::WHO  Situation Report 86: Canada reported 1,316 new cases, bringing the total number to 28,379. cases and 903 deaths. France reported 1,438 new deaths (including hospital and rest home deaths), bringing the death toll to 17,167. Indonesia reported 297 new cases, bringing the total to 5,136. Indonesian health authorities report 10 new deaths, bringing the total to 469. 446 have recovered and more than 36,000 people have been tested. Iran reported 94 new deaths, bringing the total to 4,777. Italy reported 578 deaths, bringing the death toll to 21,645. The country reported 2,667 new cases. Japan reported 457 new cases. Libya has reported a total of 36 cases and one death. Malaysia reported 85 new cases, bringing the total to 5,072. Malaysian health authorities also discharge 169 patients, bringing the total number of recoveries to 2,647. Malaysia also reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 83. The Maldives reported its first domestically-transmitted case. The country had previously reported 20 cases, which all involved overseas travellers. New Zealand reported  20 new cases (6 confirmed and 14 probable), bringing the total to 1,386 (1,078 confirmed and 306 probable). NZ health authorities also report 100 new recoveries, bringing the total to 728. Qatar reported 283 new cases, bringing the total to 3,711. Singapore reported 447 new cases with many of these cases from dormitories, bringing the total to 3,699. In addition, a person was later confirmed to have COVID-19 after he died, with the cause of death unrelated to COVID-19 complications. Spain reported 523 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 18,579. Switzerland reported a total of 973 deaths and 26,336 cases. Turkey reported 115 new cases, bringing the death toll to 1,518. The country has reported 4,281 new cases, bringing the total to 69,392. Ukraine reported 392 new cases and 10 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 3,764 and 108 respectively; 143 patients have recovered overall. The United Kingdom reported 761 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 12,868. A total of 98,476 have tested positive for the coronavirus. According to  US Vice President   Mike Pence , more than 3 million in the United States have been tested for the coronavirus. Pence has reported 619,000 cases, over 27,000 deaths, and 45,000 recoveries. Johns Hopkins University  reported that the global number of coronavirus cases and deaths have reached 2,000,984 and 128,011 respectively. 

16 April::WHO  Situation Report 87: Africa has confirmed a total of 17,247 cases, 911 deaths, and over 3,500 recoveries. Bonaire reported its first case. Canada has reported 1,727 new cases, bringing the total number to 30,106. China reported 46 new cases of the coronavirus (34 imported and 12 domestic). Of the 12 domestic cases, three are in Beijing, five in  Guangdong  province and four in  Heilongjiang  province. Eswatini/Swaziland reported its first death resulting from the coronavirus. The country has reported a total of 17 cases. Fiji has confirmed its 17th case. France records 753 more deaths, bringing the total to 17,920. 6,248 remain in intensive care. The  French Ministry of Armed Forces  reported that 668 French marines have contracted the coronavirus. Germany reported 2,866 cases, bringing the total to 130,450. German authorities report 315 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,569. Indonesia reported 380 new cases, bringing the total to 5,516. Indonesian authorities have reported 27 deaths, bringing the death toll to 496. 548 have recovered and 11,000 tests have been conducted. Iran confirmed 92 deaths, bringing the total to 4,869. Iranian authorities have confirmed 1,606 new cases, bringing the total to 77,995, with 3,594 in critical condition. 52,229 have recovered. Italy reported 525 deaths, bringing the death toll to 22,170. Italian authorities have also reported 3,76 cases, bringing the total to 168,941. 2,936 remain in intensive care while 40,164 have recovered. Japan has reported a total of about 9,000 cases (including three cabinet officials) and nearly 200 deaths. Malaysia reported 110 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 5,182. Malaysian authorities report one death, bringing the total to 84. 2,766 patients have recovered while 2,332 are still being treated. The Netherlands reported 1,061 new cases, bringing the total to 29,214. Dutch authorities report 181 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,315. New Zealand reported 15 new cases (six confirmed and nine probable), bringing the total to 1,401. 12 people remain in hospital with three in intensive care and two in critical condition. 42 people have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 770. The Philippines report 13 new deaths, bringing the total to 362. The country has reported a total of 207 cases, bringing the total to 5,660. 82 patients have recovered, bringing the total to 435. Russia has reported 3,448 cases, bringing the total to 27,938. 34 people have died, bringing the death toll to 232. Singapore reported 728 new cases with many of these cases from dormitories, bringing the total to 4,427. Slovakia reported 114 new cases and 2 new deaths, bringing the total cases to 977. South Korea has reported a total of 229 deaths and 10,613 cases. Spain reported 551 new deaths as the death toll reaches 19,130. The country has reported a total of 182,816 cases. Thailand reported 29 new cases, bringing the total to 2,672. Thai authorities report 3 new deaths, bringing the total to 46. Timor Leste reported 10 more cases, bringing the total to 18. Turkey reported 125 deaths, bringing the country's death toll to 1,643. 4,801 new cases have been reported, bringing the total to 74,193. 7,089 have recovered while 1,854 patients remain in intensive care. Ukraine reported 397 new cases and 8 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 4,161 and 116 respectively; a total of 186 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom reported 861 new deaths, bringing the total to 13,729. More than 100,000 have tested positive for the coronavirus. The United States reported a total of 31,002 deaths from the coronavirus; the highest in the world. The World Health Organization's Europe regional director  Hans Kluge  has reported over 1 million cases and 84,000 deaths in Europe. 

17 April::WHO  Situation Report 88: Canada has reported 1,821 new cases, bringing the total number to 31,927. China reported 26 new cases with 15 coming from abroad.  Wuhan has also revised its official death toll from the coronavirus by 50  from 1,290 to 3,869; with local authorities citing incorrect reporting, delays, and omissions. This brings the country's death toll to at least 4,642. France reported 761 new deaths, bringing the total to 18,681. The French government also confirmed that 1,081 crew members of the French aircraft carrier  Charles De Gaulle  have tested positive for the coronavirus. 524 sailors have also shown symptoms while 24 remain in hospitals. Italy has reported 575 deaths, bringing the death toll to 22,745. The country has reported 3,493 new cases, bringing the total to 172,434. Malaysia has reported 69 new cases, bringing the total to 5,251. 2,967 patients have recovered while 2,198 cases are receiving treatment at the country's health facilities. Malaysia also reported two new deaths, bringing the death toll to 86. The Netherlands reported 1,235 new cases, bringing the total to 30,449. The country has reported 144 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,459. New Zealand has reported eight new cases (two confirmed and six probable), bringing the total to 1,409 (1,080 confirmed and 307 probable). NZ health authorities have reported 46 recoveries, bringing the total to 816. In addition, New Zealand authorities confirm two deaths, bringing the total to 11. Pakistan reported a total of 135 deaths and 7,025 cases. The Philippines have reported a total of 5,878 cases and 387 deaths. Qatar reported 560 new cases, bringing the total to 4,663. The country has also reported 49 recoveries that same day. Russia reported 4,069 new cases, bringing the total to 32,007. Russia also reported 41 deaths, bringing the total to 273. Singapore reported 623 new cases with many of these cases from dormitories, bringing the total to 5,050.  Another death was later confirmed, bringing the total to 11. South Korea reported 22 new cases, bringing the total to 10,635. The country has reported 230 deaths. Spain has reported a total of more than 20,000 deaths and 188,068 cases. In Syria, the Kurdish-administered northeast region reported its first death from the coronavirus. Turkey has reported 4,353 cases, bringing the total to 78,546. The country has reported a total of 1,769 deaths and 8,631 recoveries. Ukraine reported its record high number of new cases with 501 new cases, bringing the total to 4,662. Additionally, 9 deaths are reported, bringing the total number of lethal cases to 125, as well as a total of 246 recoveries. The United Arab Emirates has reported a total of 5,825 cases and 35 deaths. The United Kingdom reported a total of 14,576 deaths and 108,692 cases. According to  Johns Hopkins University , the number of global deaths resulting from the coronavirus has reached 150,000. 

18 April::WHO  Situation Report 89: Algeria has reported a total of 364 deaths and 2,418 cases. Australia reported three new deaths, bringing the total to 68. Australian authorities have reported 36 new cases, bringing the total to 6,533. Bangladesh has reported a total of 2,144 and 84 deaths. Brazil has reported 2,917 new cases, bringing the total to 36,599. Brazil has reported 206 deaths, bringing the total to 2,347. Canada has reported 1,455 new cases, bringing the total number to 33,382. China reported 27 new cases with 20 originating from  Heilongjiang  province, bringing the total to 82,719. China has reported 77,029 recoveries. China has revised its death toll to 4,632 based on new figures from Wuhan. Croatia reported 18 new cases, bringing the total to 1,832. The country has also reported 39 deaths. Egypt reported 188 new cases, bringing the total to 3,032. The country has also reported 19 new deaths, bringing the total to 224. According to the  Agence France-Presse , Europe has recorded a total of 100,510 cases, nearly two-thirds of the 157,163 fatalities worldwide. France has reported 642 deaths, bringing the death toll to 19,323. 5,833 remain in intensive care. Germany has reported 3,609 cases, bringing the total to 137,439. Germany has reported 242 new deaths, bringing the total to 4,110. Indonesia reported 325 new cases, bringing the total to 6,248. Indonesian health authorities report 15 new deaths, bringing the total to 535. However, the Indonesian Doctors Association have claimed that the figure is higher, citing that the official figures do not include the deaths of patients suspected of having the coronavirus but still awaiting tests. Iran reported 73 deaths, bringing the total to 5,031. Iran has reported a total of 80,868 cases. Japan has reported a total of over 200 deaths and 10,000 infections. Tokyo reported 181 new cases. Malaysia has reported 54 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 5,305. Malaysian health authorities have discharged 135 patients, bringing the total number of recoveries to 3,102. Malaysia has also reported two new deaths, bringing the death toll to 88. Mexico has reported 578 new cases, bringing the total to 6,875. Mexico has reported 60 new deaths, bringing the total to 546. Morocco reported 2,670 cases, 137 deaths, and 298 recoveries. Nepal has reported a total of 30 cases. The Netherlands has reported 1,140 new cases, bringing the total to 31,589. Dutch authorities have reported 142 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,601. New Zealand has reported 13 new cases (8 confirmed and 5 probable), bringing the total to 1,422 (1,094 confirmed and 328 probable). In addition, NZ health authorities report 51 new recoveries, bringing the total to 867. Palestinian officials report the first Palestinian death in disputed  East Jerusalem . The Philippines has reported 10 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 397. Philippines health authorities have confirmed 209 new cases, bringing the total to 6,087. The Philippines has reported 29 recoveries, bringing the total to 516. Russia has reported 40 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 313. Russia also reported 4,785 new cases, bringing the total to 36,793. Moscow has reported 2,649 new cases and 21 new deaths. Singapore has reported 942 new cases (mainly foreign workers), bringing the total to 5,992.  In addition, a person who had COVID-19 died, with the cause of death being a heart attack. South Korea has confirmed a total of 10,653 cases and 232 deaths. Spain has reported a total of 191,726 cases and 20,043 deaths. Switzerland reported a total of 1,111 deaths and 27,404 cases. Thailand has reported 33 new deaths, bringing the total to 2,733. Thai authorities have reported a total of 1,787 recoveries and 47 deaths. Turkey has reported 3,783 new cases, bringing the total to 82,239. 121 have died, bringing the death toll to 1,890. Turkey has reported 1,822 recoveries and 40,520 tests. Ukraine reported 444 new cases and 8 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 5,106 and 133 respectively; a total of 275 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom reported 888 deaths in hospitals, bringing the death toll to 15,464. UK authorities have tested 357,023 people, with 114,217 testing positive. In the United States, the death toll has exceeded 31,000. New York state authorities have reported 540 deaths and over 2,000 hospital admissions in the last 24 hours. According to  Johns Hopkins University , the number of global cases has reached 2.3 million while the global death toll has exceeded 159,000. 

19 April::WHO  Situation Report 90: The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) has reported 55 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,080. The continent has reported 1,047 new cases, bringing the total number of infections to 21,317. Canada has reported a total of 1,506 deaths and 1,673 new cases, bringing the total number to 35,055. Chile has reported a total of over 10,000 cases and 133 deaths. China has reported 16 new cases (including nine imported cases), bringing the total to 82,735. France has reported 395 deaths, bringing the death toll to 19,718. 5,744 remain in intensive care. Germany has reported 2,458 new cases, bringing the total to 139,897. Germany also reported 184 new deaths, bringing the total to 4,294. Guinea has reported 518 cases and five deaths. The deceased include several senior government officials including secretary-general Sekou Kourouma. Honduras has reported a total of 472 cases and 46 deaths. Indonesia has reported 327 new cases, bringing the total to 6,575. Indonesian health authorities also report 47 new deaths, bringing the total to 582. Israel has reported 97 new cases, bringing the total to 13,362, with 156 being in critical condition. Israel has also reported 7 deaths, bringing the death toll to 171. Italy has reported 433 new deaths and 3,047 new cases. Japan has reported 568 new cases, bringing the total to 10,361. If combined with the 712 cases reported on a cruise ship quarantined near Tokyo, the total figure rises to 11,073. Japan has also reported a total of 174 deaths. Malaysia has reported 84 new cases, bringing the total to 5,389. Malaysian health authorities have also reported 95 recoveries, bringing the total to 3,197. Malaysia also reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 89. Mexico has reported a total of 7,947 cases and 650 deaths. The Netherlands has reported 1,066 new cases, bringing the total to 32,655. Dutch authorities have also confirmed 83 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,684. New Zealand has reported 9 new cases (4 confirmed and 5 probable), bringing the total to 1,431 (1,098 confirmed and 333 probable). Health authorities have also reported 45 new recoveries, bringing the total to 912. In addition, authorities confirm one death from the coronavirus during a post-morterm, bringing the total death toll to 12.  Health authorities also confirm that three baby boys had contracted the coronavirus. Pakistan has reported 514 new cases, bringing the total to 7,993 cases. Pakistani authorities have reported 16 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 159. Panama has reported a total of 4,273 cases and 120 deaths. Peru has reported a total of 15,628 cases and 400 deaths. The Philippines has reported 172 new cases, bringing the total to 6,259. The country also reported 12 new deaths, bringing the total to 409. 56 patients have recovered, bringing the total to 572. Poland reported 545 new cases, bringing the total to 9,287. Qatar has reported 440 new cases, bringing the total to 4,922. So far, the country has reported a total of eight deaths. Russia has reported 6,060 new cases, bringing the total to 42,853. Russia has reported 48 deaths, bringing the death toll to 361. Rwanda has reported a total of 44 cases. Singapore has reported 596 new cases, bringing the total to 6,588. Apart from 25 citizens and permanent residents, the majority of cases are in dormitories. South Korea has reported 15 new cases, bringing the total to 10,661 cases. There have also been a total of 234 deaths. Spain reported 410 new deaths, bringing the total to 20,453. Spain has reported a total of 195,944 cases. Taiwan has reported 22 new cases, bringing the total to 420. 21 of the newly infected cases had been  Republic of China Navy  sailors who had taken part in a goodwill mission to Palau. Taiwan has reported a total of six deaths. Ukraine reported 343 new cases and 8 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 5,449 and 141 respectively; a total of 347 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 596 hospital deaths, bringing the death toll to 16,060. The United States reported 2,009 new cases, bringing the total to 735,336. The US has reported a total of 40,585 deaths, with almost half of them originating in New York state. Zimbabwe has reported a total of three deaths and 25 cases. According to figures released by  Johns Hopkins University , more than 2.3 million people have been infected and over 164,000 people have died. 

20 April::WHO  Situation Report 91: Canada has reported a total of 1,611 deaths and 1,775 new cases, bringing the total number to 36,830. China has reported 12 new cases (eight of them imported) and 49 new asymptomatic cases but no deaths. Ecuador has reported a total of over 10,000 cases. Fiji has confirmed its 18th case.  In addition, three people recovered and were discharged from hospital. France has reported a total of 20,265 deaths. Germany has reported 1,775 new cases, bringing the total to 141,672. Germany has reported 110 new deaths. Ghana has confirmed a total of 834 cases and nine deaths. Indonesia has reported 85 new cases, bringing the total number to 6,070. Indonesia has reported eight new deaths, bringing the death toll to 590. 747 people have recovered while 49,700 tests have been conducted. Iran has reported 91 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,209. Iran has reported a total of 83,505 cases. Italy has reported that 108,237 were being treated at home or recovering in hospital, a drop by 20 from the total reported on Sunday. Malaysia has reported 36 new cases, bringing the country's total number of cases to 5,425. Malaysian authorities have discharged 98 patients, bringing the total number of recoveries to 3,295. Malaysia has reported no new deaths. The Netherlands has reported 750 new cases, bringing the total to 33,405. Dutch health authorities have also reported 67 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,751. New Zealand has reported 9 new cases (7 confirmed and 2 probable), bringing the total to 1,440 (1,105 confirmed and 335 probable). NZ health authorities have also recovered 62 new recoveries, bringing the total to 974. Fourteen people remain hospitalised. The Philippines has confirmed 19 new deaths, bringing the total to 428. The dead include former Senator and government minister  Heherson Alvarez . The Philippines has also confirmed 200 new cases, bringing the total to 6,459. 41 patients have recovered, bringing the total to 613. Russia has confirmed 4,268 new cases, bringing the total to 47,121. 44 new deaths have been reported. Singapore has reported 1,426 new cases, bringing the total to 8,014. South Korea has reported 20 new cases (13 from overseas), bringing the total to 10,764. Spain has confirmed a total of 200,210 cases and 20,852 deaths. Switzerland has reported 204 new cases, bringing the total to 27,944. The country has also reported  a total of 1,142 deaths. Thailand has reported 27 new cases, bringing the total to 2,792. Thailand has also reported 47 deaths and 1,999 recoveries. Turkey has reported 4,674 cases, bringing the total to 90,980. Turkey has also reported 123 deaths, bringing the death toll to 2,140. 13,430 people have recovered while 39,703 people have been tested. Ukraine reported 261 new cases and 10 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 5,710 and 151 respectively; 359 patients have recovered overall. 

21 April::WHO  Situation Report 92: Canada has reported 1,591 new cases, bringing the total number to 38,421 cases and 1,728 deaths. China has reported 11 new cases and 37 asymptomatic cases but no new deaths. Indonesia reported 375 new cases, bringing the total to 7,135. Indonesian health authorities also report 26 new deaths, taking the death toll to 616. Italy has reported 534 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 24,648. Italy has reported over 180,000 cases and almost 49,000 recovered people. In Japan, a crew member aboard  Costa Atlantica  in  Nagasaki  tested positive for the coronavirus. About 20 others are also down with a fever. Lebanon has reported a total of 677 cases and 21 deaths. Malaysia has reported 57 new cases, bringing the total to 5,482. 54 more patients have been discharged, bringing the number of recoveries to 3,349. Malaysia has recorded three more fatalities, bringing the death toll to 92. In Morocco, 68 people, mainly staff, have tested positive for the coronavirus in the southern city of  Ouarzazate . The Netherlands has reported 729 new cases, bringing the total to 34,134. Dutch health authorities have reported 165 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,916. New Zealand has reported 5 new cases (2 confirmed and 3 probable), bringing the total to 1,445 (1,107 confirmed and 338 probable). NZ authorities also report 32 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,006. The country also reported a new death, bringing the death toll to 13.  In addition, a New Zealand traveller in Peru died after missing a repatriation flight, however this is not included in Ministry of Health figures. Pakistan has confirmed 17 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 192. Pakistan also confirmed 705 new cases, bringing the total to 9,214. The Philippines reported 9 new deaths, bringing the total to 437. The Philippines has reported 140 new cases, bringing the total to 6,599. Singapore has reported 1,111 new cases, bringing the total to 9,125. Spain has reported 430 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 21,282. Spain has reported nearly 4,000 new cases, bringing the total number of infections to 204,178. Turkey has reported 4,611 new cases, bringing the total to 95,591. Turkey report 119 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 2,259. Ukraine reported 415 new cases and 10 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 6,125 and 161 respectively; a total of 367 patients have recovered. The United States has reported 2,721 new deaths and more than 40,000 new cases. 

22 April::WHO  Situation Report 93: Bulgaria has reported a total number of 1,015 cases, 47 deaths, and 174 recoveries. Canada has reported a total of 1,871 deaths and 1,769 new cases bringing the total number to 40,190. China has reported 30 new cases (23 involving people returning from overseas) and 42 asymptomatic cases. Indonesia has reported 283 new cases, bringing the total to 7,418. Indonesia has also reported 19 deaths, bringing the death toll to 635. Indonesia has reported a total of 913 recoveries. Iran has reported 94 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,391. Iran has a total of 85,996 cases. Italy has reported 437 new deaths, bringing the death toll 25,085. Italian authorities have reported 3,370 cases, bringing the number of cases to 187,327. In Japan,  Nagasaki  authorities have confirmed 33 new cases aboard the Italian cruise ship  Costa Atlantica  based on  contact tracing  of an infected crew member, bringing the total to 34. The  Costa Atlantica  has remained in Nagasaki's shipyard since February.  Eight babies and children at a Tokyo-based residential care facility have tested positive for the coronavirus. Jordan has reported a total of 435 cases, 297 recoveries, and seven deaths. Lebanon has reported the death of a Syrian Palestinian at Wavel refugee camp in the eastern  Bekaa Valley . Malaysia has reported 50 new cases, bringing the total to 5,532. Malaysian health authorities have discharged 103 patients, bringing the total number of recoveries to 3,452. Malaysia reported one death, bringing the death toll to 93. The Netherlands has confirmed 708 new cases, bringing the total to 34,842. Dutch health authorities have confirmed 138 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,054. New Zealand has reported six new cases, bringing the total to 1,451 (1,113 confirmed and 338 probable). In addition, there have been 30 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,036. Authorities have also reported another death, bringing the death toll to 14. The Philippines has reported 111 new cases, bringing the total number to 6,710. The Philippines has reported nine new deaths, bringing the total to 446. 39 patients have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 693. Qatar has reported 608 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 7,141. Qatar health authorities have confirmed 75 recoveries and one new death. Russia has reported 5,236 new cases, bringing the total to 57,999. Russia has reported 53 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 513. Singapore has reported 1,016 new cases, bringing the total to 10,141. Another death was confirmed later, bringing the death toll to 12. South Korea has reported 11 new cases (six involving overseas travel). Spain has reported 435 deaths, bringing the total to 21,717. The Spanish health ministry has reported 4,211 new cases, bringing the total to 208,389. Switzerland has reported a total of 1,217 deaths and 28,268 cases. Turkey has reported 3,083 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 98,674. The country has reported 117 new deaths, bringing the total to 2,376; 16,477 people have recovered and 37,535 people have been tested. Ukraine has reported a total of 6,592 cases, 174 deaths, and 424 recoveries. The United Kingdom has confirmed 763 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 18,100. The number of cases has reached 133,495.  Foreign Secretary   Dominic Raab  has also confirmed the deaths of 69  National Health Service  personnel as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The United States has reported 1,738 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 46,583. Californian health authorities have also confirmed that two people in the state died from the coronavirus before the United States reported its first death in late February 2020. According to  Johns Hopkins University , more than 2.5 million people globally have contracted the coronavirus and at least 178,000 have died. 

23 April::WHO  Situation Report 94: Canada has reported 1,920 new cases, bringing the total number to 42,110. China has reported ten new cases, bringing the total to 82,798. No new deaths have been reported. France has reported 516 new deaths, bringing the total to 21,856. Italy has reported 464 new cases, bringing the total to 189,973. The country has reported a total of 25,549. Japan has reported 14 new cases aboard the Italian cruise ship  Costa Atlantica , bringing the total number of infected aboard the ship to 48. The  Costa Atlantica  is carrying 623 passengers. Malaysia has reported 71 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 5,603. 3,542 have recovered. Malaysia also reported two new deaths, bringing the death toll to 95. New Zealand has reported three new cases (two confirmed and one probable). Three previous cases were also rescinded, keeping the total at 1,451. In addition, NZ authorities report 29 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,065. Two further deaths are reported, bringing the death toll to 16. Pakistan has reported 765 new cases, bringing the total to 10,513. Singapore has reported 1,037 new cases, bringing the total to 11,178.  In addition, a patient who had COVID-19 was found dead at a staircase landing,  with the death caused by a fatal height injury. Spain has reported 440 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 22,157. The number of total cases has risen to 213,024. Turkey reported 115 new deaths, bringing the total to 2,941. The country has reported a total of 101,790 cases. Ukraine reported 578 new cases and 13 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 7,170 and 187 respectively, as well as a total of 504 recoveries. The United Kingdom has reported 616 deaths in hospitals, bring the death toll to 18,738. 16,786 of these deaths have occurred in England, which also reported 514 new deaths. UK health authorities have also tested 425,821 people, with 138,078 testing positive. In the United States, California reported 115 deaths in the past 24 hours. Venezuela has reported a total of 311 cases and 10 deaths. The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 26,000 cases across the continent, up from 16,000 a week ago. About 1,200 have died. Fewer than 500,000 tests have been conducted, some 325 per million population. Authorities are concerned that fragile health systems may soon be overwhelmed. 

24 April::WHO  Situation Report 95: Bangladesh has reported a total of 3,772 cases and 120 deaths. The  Bangladesh Doctors Foundation  also confirm that 251 doctors have tested positive for the coronavirus. Belarus has confirmed a total of 8,773 cases. Canada has reported 1,778 new cases, bringing the total number to 43,888. China has reported six new cases (two involving overseas travel), bringing the total number of cases to 82,804. Djibouti has reported a total of 985 cases and two deaths. France has reported 389 new deaths, bringing the total to 22,245. Hong Kong has reported no new cases and deaths for the past two weeks. According to health authorities, the total number of cases stands at 1,036. India has reported 1,680 new cases (including 778 in  Maharashtra  state), bringing the total to 22,930. Indonesia has reported 436 new cases, bringing the total number to 8,211. 42 people have died, bringing the death toll to 689. Iran has reported 93 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,574. The country has a total of 88,194 cases with 3,121 in serious condition. In Japan, Nagasaki authorities have reported that 91 crew members of the Italian cruise ship  Costa Atlantica  have tested positive for the coronavirus. Nagasaki authorities intend to test 260 of the 623 crew. The Japanese Government announce that those who test negative will be repatriated to their home countries. Lebanon has reported a total of 696 cases and 22 deaths. Malaysia has reported 88 new cases, bringing the total to 5,691. Malaysian authorities also report 121 new recoveries, bringing the total to 3,663. Malaysia also reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 96. The Netherlands has reported 806 new cases, bringing the total to 36,535. The country has reported 112 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,289. New Zealand has reported five new cases (2 confirmed and 3 probable), bringing the total to 1,456 (1,114 confirmed and 342 probable). Health authorities also report 30 recoveries, bringing the total to 1,095. In addition, another death was reported, bringing the total to 17. The Philippines has reported 211 new cases, bringing the total to 7,192. The country has also reported 15 deaths, bringing the total to 477. The Philippines also reported 40 new recoveries, bringing the total to 762. Portugal has reported a total of 22,797 cases and 854 fatalities. Qatar has reported 761 cases, bringing the total to 8,525. The country has reported ten new deaths. Singapore has reported 897 new cases, bringing the total to 12,075. Spain has reported 367 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 22,524. Spain has reported 219,764 cases. Switzerland has reported a total of 1,309 deaths and 28,677 cases. Thailand has reported 15 new cases, bringing the total to 2,854. Thailand reported no new deaths with the death toll remaining at 50. Timor Leste has reported 24 cases and two recoveries. The infected include a nurse, who became the first confirmed health worker to be infected with the coronavirus. Turkey has reported 3,122 new cases, bringing the total to 104,912. The number of deaths rises by 109 to a total of 2,600. Ukraine reported 477 new cases and 6 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 7,647 and 193 respectively; a total of 601 patients have recovered. In the United Kingdom, English hospitals report 587 deaths, bringing the death toll to 17,373. The United States has reported a total of 50,031 deaths and 870,648 cases, based on figures released by  Johns Hopkins University .  The  USS Kidd  has reported at least 18 cases aboard. Vietnam has reported two new cases, bringing the total to 270. 

25 April::WHO  Situation Report 96: Canada has reported 1,466 new cases, bringing the total number to 45,354. China has reported 12 new cases, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 82,816. China has also reported 29 new asymptomatic cases. No new deaths have been reported with the official death toll remaining at 4,632. France has reported 369 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 22,164. 124 patients have been admitted into intensive care in the previous 24 hours. Germany has reported 2,055 cases, bringing the total to 152,438. Germany has also reported 179 new deaths, bringing the cases to 5,500. Indonesia has reported 396 new cases, bringing the total to 8,607. Indonesia has reported 31 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 720. Iran has reported 76 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,650. Iran has also reported a total of 89,328 cases, with 3,096 in serious condition. Japan has reported a total of 12,800 cases and 345 deaths. Nagasaki authorities have reported 57 new cases among the crew of the cruise ship  Costa Atlantica , bringing the total to 148.  Tokyo has confirmed 103 new cases, bringing the total number of cases in Tokyo to 3,836. Malaysia has reported 51 new cases, bringing the total to 5,742. Malaysian authorities have also reported two deaths, bringing the death toll to 98. Mexico has reported a total of 12,872 cases and 1,221 deaths. The Netherlands has reported 655 cases, bringing the total to 37,190. The country has reported 120 new deaths, bringing the total to 4,409. New Zealand has reported five new cases (three confirmed and two probable), bringing the total to 1,461 (1,117 confirmed and 344 probable). NZ health authorities have reported 23 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,118. One further death has also been reported, bringing the total to 18. The Philippines has reported 17 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 494. The Philippines has also reported 102 new cases, bringing the total to 7,294. Poland has reported a total of 11,067 cases and 499 deaths. Russia has reported 5,966 new cases, bringing the total to 74,588. Russia has reported 66 new deaths, bring the death toll to 681. Singapore has reported 618 new cases, bringing the total to 12,693. Spain has reported 378 new deaths, bringing the total to 22,902. The country has reported a total of 223,759 cases. Sri Lanka has confirmed 60 new cases, bringing the total to 420. The country has also confirmed seven deaths. Thailand has reported 53 new cases, bringing the total to 2,907. Thailand has also reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 51. 2,547 patients have recovered. Turkey has reported 2,861 cases, bringing the total to 107,773. The country also reported 106 deaths, raising the death toll to 2,706. 25,582 have recovered and 38,308 people have been tested in the last 24 hours. Ukraine reported 478 new cases and 8 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 8,125 and 201 respectively; a total of 782 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom reported 813 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 20,319. UK authorities also reported 4,913 new cases, bringing the total to 148,377. The United States has reported a total of 895,766 cases. The US  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  reported 1,623 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 50,439. Johns Hopkins University has reported that the global death toll now stands at 200,697. 

26 April::WHO  Situation Report 97: Belgium has reported 553 cases including 127 admissions, the lowest level since 18 March when daily admissions reached a peak of 600. Canada has reported a total of 2,489 deaths. Canada has reported 1,541 new cases, bringing the total to 46,895. China has reported 11 new cases, bringing the total to 82,827. The  National Health Commission  also reported that all coronavirus patients in Wuhan have been discharged from the city's hospitals. France has reported 242 deaths, bringing the death toll to 22,856. Germany has reported 1,747 new cases, bringing the total to 154,175. The country's death toll rose by 140 to 5,640. India has reported a total of 26,496 cases and 824 deaths. Indonesia has reported 275 new cases, raising the total to 8,882. 23 people have died, bringing the death toll to 743. Iran has reported 60 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,710. Iran has reported a total of 90,481 cases. Japan has reported a total of 13,231 cases and 360 deaths. Tokyo has also reported 72 new cases, bringing the total in the capital to 3,900. Malaysia has reported 38 new cases, bringing the total to 5,870. 3,862 have recovered while the death toll remains at 98. Mexico has reported 970 new cases, bringing the total to 13,842. Mexico has reported 84 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,305. The Netherlands has reported 655 new cases, bringing the total to 37,845. The Netherlands has also reported 66 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,475. New Zealand has reported 9 new cases (4 confirmed and 5 probable), bringing the total to 1,470 (1,121 confirmed and 349 probable). NZ health authorities have reported 24 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,142. The Philippines has reported seven new deaths, bringing the death toll to 501. The country has also reported 285 new cases, bringing the total to 7,579. 862 patients have recovered. Russia has reported 6,361 new cases, bringing the total to 80,949. 66 have died, bringing the death toll to 747. Singapore has reported 931 new cases (the majority foreign migrant workers and 15 permanent residents), bringing the total to 13,264.  Among them include two imported cases, the first since 17 April. South Korea has reported 10 new cases (seven involving overseas travel and three in Daegu), bringing the total to 10,718. The death toll remains at 210. Spain has reported 288 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 23,190. Spain has reported a total of 207,634 cases. Thailand has reported 15 new cases, bringing the total to 2,922. 2,594 patients have recovered and the death toll remains at 51. Turkey has reported 2,357 cases, bringing the total to 110,130. Turkey has reported 99 deaths, bringing the total to 2,805. Turkey has reported 29,140 recoveries. Ukraine has reported 492 new cases and 8 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 8,617 and 209 respectively; a total of 840 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 413 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 20,732. The UK has reported 4,463 new cases, bringing the total to 152,840. According to a  Reuters  report, 96  of the 3,277 prisoners who tested positive for the coronavirus in the US states of  Arkansas ,  North Carolina ,  Ohio , and  Virginia  were asymptomatic. Johns Hopkins University  has reported over 200,000 deaths, 2.88 million cases, and 813,000 recoveries. 

27 April::WHO  Situation Report 98: Canada has reported a total of 2,617 deaths and 1,605 new cases, bringing the total number to 48,500. China has reported three new cases (two overseas cases and one from  Heilongjiang ) and no new deaths. France has reported 437 deaths, bringing the total death toll to 23,293. 28,055 remain hospitalised with 4,608 in intensive care. Germany has reported 1,018 new cases and 100 deaths. India has confirmed a total of 27,000 cases and 872 deaths. Iran has reported 700 deaths from ingested toxic methanol, mistakenly believing that it could cure the coronavirus. Italy has reported 333 deaths, bringing the death toll to 26,977. Italy has reported 1,739 cases, bringing the total number to 199,414. Malaysia has reported 40 new cases, bringing the total to 5,820. 95 patients have been discharged, bringing the number of recoveries to 3,957. Malaysia has also reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 99. The Netherlands has reported 400 new cases, bringing the total to 38,245. Dutch authorities have also confirmed 45 deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,518. New Zealand has reported five new cases (one confirmed and four probable). Six previous cases have also been rescinded, bringing the total down to 1,469 (1,122 confirmed and 347 probable). NZ health authorities have also reported 38 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,180. One further death has been reported, bringing the death toll to 19. Pakistan has reported 605 new cases and a total of 281 deaths. The Philippines has reported 198 new cases, bringing the total to 7,777. The country has reported ten new deaths, bringing the death toll to 511. Singapore has reported 799 new cases, bringing the total to 14,423. Two deaths have been confirmed, bringing the total to 14. South Africa has reported a total of 4,546 cases and 87 deaths. Spain has reported 331 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 23,521. Thailand has reported nine cases and one death, bringing the total to 2,931 cases and 52 deaths respectively. Turkey has reported 2,131 new cases, bringing the total to 112,261. Turkey has reported 95 deaths, bringing the death toll to 2,900. Ukraine has reported 392 new cases and 11 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 9,009 and 220 respectively; a total of 864 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 360 new deaths (including 82 medical workers), bringing the death toll to 21,092. In the United States, New York has recorded 337 new deaths. 

28 April::WHO  Situation Report 99: Canada has reported 1,526 new cases, bringing the total number to 50,026. China has reported three new cases, bringing the total to 82,836. Chinese authorities have reported no new deaths. Egypt has reported a total of 4,782 cases. Germany has confirmed 1,114 new cases, bringing the total to 156,337. Germany has also reported 163 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,913. Indonesia has officially reported 415 new cases, bringing the total to 9,511. Indonesian health authorities have also reported eight new deaths, bringing the death toll to 773. Indonesia has also reported 1,254 recoveries.  However, a Reuters report suggests that more than 2,000 Indonesians with acute symptoms of COVID-19 have died based on an analysis of data from 16 of Indonesia's 34 provinces. Iran has reported 71 deaths, raising the death toll to 5,877. Iran has reported a total of 92,584 cases. Italy has reported 382 deaths, causing the death toll to exceed 20,000. Italian authorities have reported 2,091 cases, bringing the total number to 201,505. 105,205 remain infected while 68,941 have recovered. The Italian  Civil Protection Department  has reported that 1.275 million people have been tested. Malaysia has reported 31 new cases, bringing the total number to 5,851. Malaysia has reported 75 new recoveries, bringing the total number of recoveries to 4,032. Malaysia has reported one new death, bringing the total death toll to 100. The Netherlands has reported 171 cases, bringing the total to 38,416. Dutch authorities have also reported 48 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,566. New Zealand has reported three new cases (two confirmed and one probable), bringing the total to 1,472 (1,124 confirmed and 348 probable). NZ authorities have also reported 34 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,214. Pakistan has reported at least 20 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 301. 751 new cases were reported, bringing the total number to 14,079. Peru has reported a total of 30,000 cases and 854 deaths. The Philippines has reported 181 new cases, bringing the total number to 7,958. Filipino authorities have also reported 43 recoveries, bringing the total number to 975. The Philippines has reported 19 more deaths, bringing the death toll to 530. Singapore has reported 528 new cases, bringing the total to 14,951. South Korea has reported 14 new cases, bringing the total to 10,752. Turkey has reported 92 deaths, bringing the death toll to 2,992. Turkey has also reported 2,392 cases, bringing the total to 114,653. 38,809 people have recovered while 29,230 people have been tested in the past 24 hours. Ukraine has reported 401 new cases and 19 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 9,410 and 239 respectively; a total of 992 patients have recovered. The United States has reported over 1 million cases and more than 57,000 deaths as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. Illinois has reported 142 deaths, bringing the total to 2,125. Illinois has also reported 2,219 cases, bringing the total to 48,102. 

29 April::WHO  Situation Report 100: Azerbaijan has reported a total of 1,717 cases and 22 deaths. Bosnia has reported 93 new cases and two deaths, bringing the total to 1,677 and the death toll to 67. The surge in cases accompanied the easing of lockdown restrictions in the autonomous  Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina  and the  Republika Srpska . Brazil has reported 6,726 new cases, bringing the total number to 78,612. Brazil has reported a total of 5,466 deaths. Canada has reported 1,571 new cases, bringing the total number to 51,597. China has reported 22 new cases, all involving overseas travel. Chinese authorities have reported no new deaths, with the official death toll remaining at 4,633. Germany has reported 1,304 new cases and 202 more deaths. India has reported 73 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,007. India has reported over 30,000 cases. Indonesia has reported 260 new cases, bringing the total number to 9,771. Indonesian health authorities have also reported 11 deaths, bringing the death toll to 784. 1,391 people have recovered and more than 67,700 people have been tested. Iran has reported 80 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,957. Iran has reported a total of 93,657 cases. Malaysia has reported 94 new cases, bringing the total to 5,945. 55 patients have been discharged, bringing the number of recoveries to 4,087. The country's death toll remains at 100. The Netherlands has reported 386 cases, bringing the total number to 38,802. Dutch authorities have reported 145 deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,711. New Zealand has reported three new cases (one confirmed and two probable), bringing the total to 1,474 (1,126 confirmed and 348 probable). NZ health authorities have also reported 15 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,229. Pakistan has reported 26 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 327. Pakistan has also reported 806 new cases, bringing the total to 14,885. A total of at least 3,245 patients have recovered. Poland has reported a total of 12,415 cases and 606 deaths. Russia has reported 5,841 new cases, bringing the total number to 99,399. Russia has reported 108 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 972. Serbia has reported a total of 8,724 cases and 173 deaths. Singapore has reported 690 new cases, bringing the total to 15,641. South Africa has reported 354 new cases, bringing the total to 5,350. South Africa has reported ten new deaths, bringing the death toll to 103. South African authorities have conducted a total of 197,127 tests with 11,630 being done in the last 24 hours. Spain has reported 325 deaths, bringing the death toll to 24,275. Spain has reported 2,144 cases, bringing the total to 212,917. Turkey has reported a total of nearly 115,000 cases and nearly 3,000 deaths. Ukraine has reported 456 new cases and 11 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 9,866 and 250 respectively; a total of 1,103 patients have recovered. 

30 April::WHO  Situation Report 101: Bosnia-Herzegovina has reported a total of 1,757 cases and 69 deaths. Brazil has reported 7,218 new cases, bringing the total to 85,380. Brazil also reported 435 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,901. Canada has reported 1,638 new cases, bringing the total number to 53,235. China has reported four new cases, bringing the total number to 82,862, of which 1,664 are imported. The Comoros has reported its first case, a 50-year old Franco-Comorian man. Indonesia has reported 347 new cases, bringing the total to 10,118. Indonesian health authorities have reported 8 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 792. A total of 1,522 people have recovered and 72,300 have been tested. Iran has confirmed 71 new deaths, bringing the death toll above 6,028. Italy has reported 285 deaths, bringing the death toll to 27,967. Italy has reported 1,872 cases, bringing the total number to 205,463. The total number of infected decline from 104,657 on 28 April to 101,551 on 1 May. Malaysia has reported 57 new cases, bringing the total number to 6,002. Malaysian health authorities have discharged 84 patients, bringing the total number of recoveries to 4,171. Malaysia has reported two deaths, bringing the death toll to 102. The Maldives has reported its first death. The country has reported a total of 280 cases, the majority among its migrant workforce. The Netherlands has reported 514 cases, bringing the total to 39,316. The Dutch have reported 84 deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,795. New Zealand has reported three new cases and one rescinded probable case, bringing the total to 1,476 (1,129 confirmed and 347 probable). NZ authorities have also reported 12 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,241. Pakistan has reported 874 new cases, bringing the total to 15,759. Pakistan has reported a total of 4,052 recoveries. Pakistan has also reported 19 deaths, bringing the death toll to 346. Peru has reported 3,045 cases, bringing the number of cases to 36,976. Peru has reported a total of 1,051 deaths. The Philippines has reported 276 new cases, bringing the total number to 8,488. The Philippines has also reported 10 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 568. The Philippines has also reported 20 new recoveries, bringing the total number to 1,043. Russia has reported 7,099 new cases, bringing the total to 106,498. Russia has reported 101 new deaths, bringing the total to 1,073. Singapore has reported 528 new cases, taking the total number to 16,169. Another death was later confirmed, bringing the total to 15. South Korea has reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 247. South Korea has reported no new cases, keeping the national tally at 10,765. Spain has reported 268 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 24,543. Spain has reported a total of 213,435 cases. Sri Lanka has reported a total of 630 cases and seven deaths. Tajikistan has reported its first 15 cases. Thailand has reported seven new cases, bringing the total number to 2,954. No new deaths have been reported, with the death toll remaining at 54. Turkey has confirmed 2,615 new cases, bringing the total to 120,204. Turkey has reported 203 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,174. Ukraine has reported 540 new cases and 11 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 10,406 and 261 respectively; a total of 1,238 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 674 deaths, bringing the death toll to 26,711.  English authorities have reported 391 new deaths, bringing the hospital death toll in England to 20,137. Yemen has reported its first two deaths and five new cases. Sub-Saharan Africa has confirmed around 238,00 cases and 900 deaths. According to  Johns Hopkins University , the global number of recoveries has reached 1,004,483 people. 
1 May::WHO  Situation Report 102: Australia has reported a total of about 6,700 cases and 93 deaths. Azerbaijan has reported a total of 1,804 cases and 24 deaths. China has reported 12 new cases (including six imported cases), bringing the total number of cases to over 84,000. France has reported 218 deaths, taking the total to 24,594. 25,887 remain in hospital and 3,878 in intensive care. Germany has reported 1,639 new cases, bringing the total to 160,758. The country has also reported 193 deaths, bringing the death toll to 6,481. Indonesia has reported 433 new cases, bringing the total number to 10,551. Indonesian health authorities have reported eight deaths, bringing the death toll to 800. Indonesia has reported 1,591 recoveries and has tested 76,500 people. Iran has reported 63 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 6,091. Iran has reported a total of 95,646 cases with 2,899 in critical condition. Italy has reported 269 deaths, bringing the death toll to 28,236. Italy has announced 1,965 new cases, bringing the total to 207,428. Malaysia has reported 69 new cases (12 imported and 57 local transmissions), bringing the total number of cases to 6,071. Malaysian authorities have also discharged 39 patients, bringing the number of recoveries to 4,210. Malaysia has also reported a new death, bringing the country's death toll to 103. Mexico has reported 1,425 new cases, bringing the total to 19,224. Mexico has reported 127 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,859. The Netherlands has reported 475 new cases, bringing the total to 39,791. Dutch authorities have reported 98 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,893. New Zealand has reported three new cases, bringing the total to 1,479 (1,132 confirmed and 347 probable). NZ health authorities have also reported 11 new recoveries, bringing the total 1,252. The Philippines has reported 284 new cases, bringing the total number to 8,772. The Philippines has reported 11 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 579. Qatar has reported 687 new cases, bringing the total number to 14,096. Qatar has also reported two new deaths, bringing the death toll to 12. A total of 1,436 people have recovered. Russia has reported 7,993 cases, bringing the total to 114,431. Russia has reported 96 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,169. Singapore has reported 932 new cases, bringing the total to 17,101. Another death was later confirmed, bringing the total to 16. South Korea has reported nine new cases, bringing the total to 10,774, of which 9,072 have recovered. Spain has reported 281 deaths, bringing the death toll to 24,824. Spanish health authorities have also reported 1,781 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 215,216. Thailand has reported six new cases, bringing the total number to 2,960. Thai authorities have reported no new deaths, with the death toll remaining at 54. Turkey has reported 84 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,258. Turkey has reported 2,188 cases, bringing the total to 122,392. Ukraine has reported 455 new cases and 11 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 10,861 and 272 respectively; a total of 1,413 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 279 deaths, bringing the death toll to 27,510.  Health Secretary   Matt Hancock  announced that UK health authorities have conducted 122,347 tests, meeting its goal of testing 100,000 people. In the United States, the estimated total death toll from the coronavirus is 63,000. Yemen has reported one new case in the  Taiz  governorate, bringing the total number to seven. Yemen has recorded a total of two deaths. According to  Johns Hopkins University , there have been over 3.26 million cases, some 233,000 deaths, and more than one million recoveries. 

2 May::WHO  Situation Report 103: The  Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention  (Africa CDC) has confirmed that Africa has recorded nearly 40,000 cases, nearly 1,700 deaths, and more than 13,000 recoveries. The coronavirus has occurred in 53 African countries. Australia has reported a total of nearly 6,800 cases and 93 deaths. Health authorities have identified a new cluster around a meat processing factory in the state of  Victoria . Brazil has reported a total of 92,200 cases and 6,412 deaths. Fiji has confirmed two recoveries. France has reported 166 deaths, bringing the death toll to 24,760. Germany has reported 954 cases, bringing the total to 161,703. Germany has also reported 94 deaths, bringing the death toll to 6,575. Italy has reported 474 deaths, bringing the death toll to 28,710. 1,539 remain in intensive care while 79,914 have recovered. Malaysia has reported 105 new cases, bringing the total number to 6,176. In addition, 116 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recovered to 4,326. The death toll remains at 103. The Netherlands has reported 445 new cases, bringing the total to 40,236. The Dutch have reported 94 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,987. New Zealand has reported 6 new cases (2 confirmed and 4 probable), bringing the total to 1,485 (1,134 confirmed and 351 probable). NZ authorities have also reported 11 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,263. NZ has also reported a new death, bringing the total to 20. The Philippines has reported 156 new cases, bringing the total to 8,928. The Philippines has reported 24 deaths, bringing the death toll to 603. 40 more people have recovered, bringing the total number of recovered to 1,124. Russia has reported 9,623 cases, bringing the total to 124,054. Russia has reported 57 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,222. The  Mayor of Moscow   Sergei Sobyanin  has also announced that 2 percent of Moscow's population (roughly 250,000 people) had tested positive for the coronavirus. Singapore has reported 447 new cases, bringing the total to 17,548. One death was later confirmed, bringing the total to 17. Another person was later confirmed to have COVID-19 after he died, with the death caused by a heart attack. South Korea has reported six new cases, bringing the total to 10,780. The country has reported two new deaths, bringing the death toll to 250. 72 people have recovered, bringing the total to 9,123. Spain has reported 276 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 25,100. Spain has reported a total of 216,582 cases. Thailand has reported six new cases, bringing the total number to 2,966. The death toll remains at 54 while 2,732 have recovered and 180 remain in hospital. Turkey has reported a total of over 122,000 cases and 3,200 deaths. Ukraine has reported 550 new cases and 7 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 11,411 and 279 respectively; a total of 1,498 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 621 deaths, bringing the total death toll to 28,131. England has reported 370 deaths (25 of whom had no underlying health conditions) in hospitals, bringing the death toll to 20,853. The United States has reported a total 65,645 deaths based on figures from  Johns Hopkins University .  The US also reported 34,000 cases, bringing the total number to more than 1.1 million. More than 164,000 people have recovered from the coronavirus and 6.5 million tests have been conducted. Yemen has reported three new cases, bringing the total to ten. Yemen has reported a total of two deaths. There have been over 3.35 million cases, 239,000 deaths, and over 1.05 million recoveries globally. 

3 May::WHO  Situation Report 104: Afghanistan has reported a total of over 2,700 cases, 85 deaths, and conducted nearly 12,000 tests. Afghan health authorities have also confirmed that 500 random tests in the capital Kabul identified 150 positive tests. Armenia has reported a total of 2,386 cases and 35 deaths. Brazil has reported 4,588 new cases, bringing the total to 101,147. Brazil has reported 275 deaths, bringing the death toll to 7,025. Canada has reported 160 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,606. Canada has reported 1,576 new cases, bringing the total to 57,148. China has reported two new cases and 12 new asymptomatic cases, bringing the total to 82,877. The death toll remains at 4,633. France has reported 135 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 24,895. 25,815 remain in hospital and 3,819 in intensive care, down from 25,827 and 3,827 respectively. India has reported 2,644 new cases, bringing the total to over 39,000. India has reported 83 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,301. Indonesia has reported 349 new cases, bringing the total to 11,912. Indonesia has reported 18 deaths, bringing the death toll to 845. Iran has reported 47 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 6,203. Iran has reported a total of 97,424 cases. Israel has reported a total of 16,194 cases and 230 deaths. Italy has reported 174 deaths, bringing the death toll to 28,884. Italy has reported 1,389 cases, bringing the total to 210,717. Malaysia has reported 122 new cases, bringing the total number to 6,297. Malaysian health authorities have also reported two new deaths, bringing the death toll to 105. The Netherlands has reported 335 new cases, bringing the total to 40,471. The Dutch have reported 69 new deaths, bringing the total to 5,056. New Zealand has reported two new cases, bringing the total to 1,487 (1,136 confirmed and 351 probable). NZ health authorities have also reported three new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,266. The Philippines has reported a total of 9,223 cases and 607 deaths. Qatar has reported 679 cases, bringing the total to 15,551. The country has reported a total of 12 deaths. Russia has reported 10,633 new cases. Singapore has reported 657 new cases, bringing the total to 18,205. In addition, Singapore's  Ministry of Health  attributed the fluctuation of cases in recent days to a case backlog in a laboratory, with steps to fix that in progress. One death was later confirmed, bringing the total to 18. South Korea has reported 13 new cases, 10 of which have been imported. Thailand has reported three new cases, bringing the total to 2,966. The country has reported a total of 54 deaths. Turkey has reported 61 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,397. Turkey has reported 1,670 new cases, bringing the total to 120,045. A total of 63,151 have recovered. Ukraine has reported 502 new cases and 9 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 11,913 and 288 respectively; a total of 1,547 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 315 deaths, bringing the death toll to 28,446 including hospitals, care homes, and community figures. In the United States, Virginia has reported its first death due to the virus, bringing the total deaths in the United States to 65,646. Vietnam has reported its first new case in nine days, bringing the total to 271. More than 30,500 people have been quarantined and 261,000 have been tested. 

4 May::WHO  Situation Report 105: Bangladesh has reported 688 new cases, bringing the total to 10,143. The country has reported a total of 182 deaths. Brazil has reported 4,075 new cases, bring the total to 105,222. Brazil has reported 263 deaths, bringing the death toll to 7,288. Chile has reported 980 new cases, bringing the total to 20,643. The country also reported 10 new deaths, bringing the total to 270. China has reported three new cases, bringing the total to 82,880. China has also reported 13 new asymptomatic cases. Germany has reported 679 new cases, bringing the total to 163,175. Germany has reported 43 deaths, bringing the death toll to 6,692. Indonesia has reported 395 new cases, bringing the total to 11,587. Indonesian health ministry official  Achmad Yurianto  has also confirmed 19 new deaths, bringing the total to 864. A total of 1,954 have recovered. Iran has reported 74 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 6,277. Iran has reported a total of 98,647 cases. Israel has reported 38 new cases, bringing the total number to 16,246. Three people have died, bringing the death toll to 233. A total of 10,064 people have recovered and 6,436 people have been tested. Italy has reported 195 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 29,079. Italy reported 1,221 new cases, bringing the total to 211,938. 99,980 remain infected with 1,479 in intensive care. 82,879 have recovered and 1.48 million have been tested for COVID-19. Malaysia has reported 55 new cases, bringing the total to 6,353. 71 people have been discharged, bringing the number of recovered to 4,484. Malaysia has reported no new deaths, with the death toll remaining at 105. The Netherlands has reported 199 new cases, bringing the total to 40,770. Dutch authorities reported 26 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,082. New Zealand has reported no new cases but one probable case was reclassified as confirmed, keeping the total at 1,487 (1,137 confirmed and 350 probable). In addition, NZ health authorities have confirmed ten new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,276. The Philippines has reported 16 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 623. The Philippines has also reported 262 new cases, bringing the total to 9,485. Russia has reported 10,581 new cases. Singapore has reported 573 new cases, bringing the total to 18,778. South Korea has reported eight new cases, bringing the total to 10,801. Turkey has reported 65 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,461. Turkish authorities have reported 1,614 new cases, bringing the total to 127,659. A total of 68,166 people have recovered. Turkey has conducted 35,771 new tests, bringing the total number of tests to 1.170 million. Ukraine has reported 418 new cases and 15 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 12,331 and 303 respectively; a total of 1,619 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 288 deaths, bringing the death toll to 28,734. Yemen has reported two new cases, bringing the total to 12. The country has a total of two deaths. 

5 May::WHO  Situation Report 106: Brazil has reported 6,935 new cases, bringing the total to 114,715. Health authorities have also reported 600 new deaths, bringing the total to 7,921. China has reported one new case and 15 asymptomatic cases. France has reported 330 deaths, bringing the  death toll to 25,531. 25,755 people remain in hospital with 3,430 in intensive care, down from 25,548 and 3,696 respectively. Germany has reported 685 new cases, bringing the total to 139,860. Germany has also reported 139 deaths, bringing the total to 6,831. Indonesia has reported 484 cases, bringing the total to 12,071. Iran has reported 1,323 new cases, bringing the total to 99,970. Iranian health authorities have also reported 63 deaths, bringing the death toll to 6,340. Italy has reported 236 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 29,315. Italy has reported 1,075 new cases, bringing the total to 213,013. Madagascar has reported a total of 149 cases and no deaths. Malaysia has reported 30 new cases, bringing the total to 6,883. 83 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 4,567. Malaysia has reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 106. New Zealand has reported no new cases and one previous probable case was rescinded, bringing the total down to 1,486 (1,137 confirmed and 349 probable). 26 new recoveries have been reported, bringing the total to 1,302. Peru has reported a total of 51,189 cases and 1,444 deaths. The Philippines has reported 14 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 637. Health authorities have also reported 199 new cases, bringing the total number to 9,684. 93 patients have recovered, bringing the total to 1,408. Russia has reported 10,102 new cases, bringing the total to 155,370. Russia has also reported 95 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,451. Singapore has reported 632 new cases, bringing the total to 19,410. In addition, a patient who had COVID-19 died from a heart attack. Spain has reported 185 deaths, bringing the death toll to 25,428. The country has reported a total of 219,329 cases. Sudan has reported four new deaths, bringing the death toll to 45. Sudanese authorities have reported 100 new cases, bringing the total to 778. 70 people have recovered from the coronavirus. Thailand has reported one new case, bringing the total number to 2,988. Thailand has reported no new deaths with the death toll remaining at 54. 2,747 have recovered while 84 are still being treated in hospitals. Turkey has reported 59 deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,250. Turkey has also reported 1,832 new cases, bringing the total to 129,491. Ukraine has reported 366 new cases and 13 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 12,697 and 316 respectively; a total of 1,875 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported over 30,000 deaths including 29,648 deaths in England and Wales. The United States has reported a total of 70,115 deaths, 1,192,119 cases, and 187,000 recoveries. The hardest hit states are New York (27,073 deaths and over 321,000 cases) and New Jersey (8,244 deaths and over 130,600 cases). Yemen has reported nine new cases, bringing the total to 21, and three deaths. The  Houthi –controlled government in  Sanaa  has reported its first case, a Somali man, and death. According to figures released by  Johns Hopkins University , the number of global coronavirus cases has exceeded 3.5 million, 251,718 have died, and 1.2 million have recovered. 

6 May::WHO  Situation Report 107: Canada has reported a total of 4,111 deaths and 62,458 cases. China has reported two new cases and 20 new asymptomatic cases. In Ecuador, the  Secoya  tribe (also known as the Siekopai) have reported 15 cases among their population of 744. France has reported 4,183 new cases. French authorities have also reported 278 new deaths (181 in hospitals and 97 in nursing homes), bringing the death toll to 16,237. 24,983 remain in hospital with 3,147 in intensive care. Germany has reported 947 cases, bringing the total to 164,807. 165 have died, bringing the death toll to 6,996. Iran has reported 1,680 new cases, bringing the total number beyond the 100,000 mark. Italy has reported 369 deaths, bringing the death toll to 29,684. Italy has reported 1,444 cases, bringing the total to 214,457. 91,528 remained infected with 1,333 in intensive care. 1.550 million people have been tested. Malaysia has reported 45 new cases, bringing the total to 6,248. Malaysia has discharged 135 patients, bringing the number of recoveries to 4,702. Malaysia has also reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 107. New Zealand has reported two new cases (1 confirmed and 1 probable), bringing the total to 1,488 (1,138 confirmed and 350 probable). NZ health authorities have reported 14 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,316. New Zealand has reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 21. The Philippines has reported 320 new cases, bringing the total to 10,004. The Philippines has reported 21 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 658. Qatar has reported 830 cases, bringing the total to 15,890. The total number of recoveries is 2,070. Russia has reported 10,559 cases, bringing the total to 165,929. Russia has reported 86 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,537. Singapore has reported 788 new cases, bringing the total to 20,198. Two deaths have been confirmed, bringing the death toll to 20. Slovakia has reported a total of 1,429 cases and 25 deaths, with recoveries being about half the total number of cases. South Ossetia has reported its first three cases. Spain has reported 244 deaths, bringing the death toll to 25,857. Spain has reported 996 new cases, bringing the total to 220,325. Turkey has reported 64 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,584. Turkey has reported 2,253 new cases, bringing the total to 131,744. A total of 78,202 have recovered. Ukraine has reported 487 new cases and 11 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 13,184 and 327 respectively; a total of 2,097 patients have recovered. The  International Council of Nurses  has reported that 90,000 nurses have been affected, with 260 killed. Yemen has reported three deaths and 25 cases. 

7 May::WHO  Situation Report 108: Afghanistan has reported a total of 3,563 cases and 106 deaths. Kabul has reported 925 cases including 346 medical staff. The Africa CDC has reported over 50,000 total cases in Africa with 8,000 in South Africa. Belarus has reported a total of 19,225 cases and at least 112 deaths. The Belarusian government has refused to impose any lockdown restrictions and quarantine measures. Brazil has reported 10,503 new confirmed cases and 615 deaths. China has reported two new cases, bringing the official tally to 82,885. The official death toll stands at 4,633. France has reported 178 new cases, bringing the total to 25,987. 23,208 remain in hospital with 2,961 in intensive care. India has reported 3,561 new cases, bringing the total to 52,952. Indian authorities have reported 1,783 deaths. Indonesia has reported 338 new cases, bringing the total to 12,776. 35 have died, bringing the death toll to 930. 96,717 people have been tested and 2,381 have recovered. Italy has reported 274 deaths, bringing the death toll to 29,958. Italy has reported  1,401 new cases, bringing the total to 215,858. Latvia has reported a total of 909 cases and 18 deaths. Malaysia has reported 39 new cases, bringing the total number to 6,467. 74 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recovered to 4,776. 1,584 remain hospitalised, with 19 in intensive care and 18 on ventilator support. The death toll remains at 107. Mexico has reported a total of 27,634 cases and 2,704 deaths. The Netherlands has reported 455 cases, bringing the total to 41,774. Dutch health authorities have reported 84 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 5,288. New Caledonia has reported that all 18 COVID-19 patients have recovered, meaning there are no active cases. New Zealand has reported one new case, bringing the total to 1,489 (1,139 confirmed and 350 probable). Health authorities have also reported 16 new recoveries, bringing the total to 1,332. A record 7,323 tests were completed the day before. Qatar has reported 918 new cases, bringing the total to 16,592. The death toll remains at 12. Russia has reported 11,231 new cases (6,703 in Moscow), bringing the total to 177,160 (92,676 in Moscow). Russia has also reported 88 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,625.  Mayor of Moscow   Sergei Sobyanin  has claimed that the number of cases in Moscow is much higher than the official figures. Singapore has reported 741 new cases, bringing the total to 20,939. Spain has reported 213 deaths, bringing the death toll to 26,070. Spain has reported a total of 221,447 cases. Thailand has reported three new cases, bringing the total to 2,992. Turkey has reported 57 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 3,641. Turkey has also reported 1,977 new cases, bringing the total to 133,721. Ukraine has reported 507 new cases and 13 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 13,691 and 340 respectively; a total of 2,396 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 539 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 30,615. The United States has reported its first death in immigration custody. Carlos Ernestor Escobar died from complications related to COVID-19 in a  San Diego  immigration detention facility. 

8 May::WHO  Situation Report 109: Argentina has reported a total of over 5,611 cases and 293 deaths. Australia has reported a total of under 7,000 cases and nearly 100 deaths. 800 people remain in hospital. Brazil has reported 10,222 new cases, bringing the total to 145,328. Brazil has reported 751 deaths, bringing the death toll to 9,897. China has reported one new case and 15 new asymptomatic cases. China has officially recorded a total of 82,887 cases, 78,000 recoveries, and 4,633 deaths. France has reported 243 deaths, raising the death toll to 26,230. 2,868 remain in intensive care. The six members of the  Gulf Cooperation Council  have reported a total of almost 80,000 cases and 486 deaths. Honduras has reported a total of 1,461 cases and 99 deaths. Italy has reported 243 deaths, bringing the death toll to 30,201. Malaysia has reported 68 new cases, bringing the total number to 6,535. 1,564 remain in hospital, with 17 in intensive care and seven on ventilator support. Malaysian authorities have discharged 88 patients, bringing the number of recovered to 4,864. The death toll remains at 107. New Zealand has reported one new confirmed case while a previous probable case was reclassified as confirmed, bringing the total to 1,490 (1,141 confirmed and 349 probable). 15 new recoveries have been reported, bringing the total to 1,347, or 90  of all cases. A record 7,812 tests were completed the previous day. Qatar has reported 1,311 new cases, bringing the total to over 20,000. Most of these cases have occurred among foreign migrant workers. The country has reported 12 deaths. Russia has reported 10,699 new cases, bringing the total to 187,859. Russia has reported 98 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,723. Singapore has reported 768 new cases, bringing the total to 21,707. Spain has reported 229 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 26,229. The country also reported a total of 222,857 cases. Thailand has reported eight new cases, bringing the total to 3,000. The death toll remains at 55. Ukraine has reported 504 new cases and 21 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 14,195 and 361 respectively; a total of 2,706 patients have recovered. In the United States, New York has reported that 73 children have been infected with a new inflammatory syndrome believed to be linked to COVID-19. One five-year-old boy has reportedly died. Yemen has reported nine new cases, bringing the total to 34. Yemen has reported two deaths, bringing the death toll to seven. 

9 May::WHO  Situation Report 110: Australia reported a total of 6,927 cases and 97 deaths. Belarus has recorded a total of 21,101 cases and 26 deaths. Canada has reported 157 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,628. Canada has reported 1,381 cases, bringing the total to 66,780. France has reported 80 deaths, bringing the death toll to 26,310. 22,614 remain in hospital with 2,812 in intensive care. Germany has reported 1,251 cases, bringing the total to 168,551. Germany has reported 147 deaths, bringing the death toll to 7,369. Indonesia has reported 533 new cases, bringing the total to 13,645. Indonesia has reported 16 deaths, bringing the total to 959. Iran has reported 1,529 new cases, bringing the total to 106,220. Iran has reported 48 deaths, bringing the death toll to 6,589. While most provinces have seen a drop in cases, cases have continued to rise in  Khuzestan . Italy has reported 194 deaths, bringing the death toll to 30,395. Italy has reported 1,083 new cases, bringing the total to 218,268. 1,034 remain in intensive care. Malaysia has reported 54 new cases, bringing the total to 6,589. Malaysia has reported one death, bringing the total to 108. New Zealand has reported two new cases (one confirmed and the other probable), bringing the total to 1,492 (1,142 confirmed and 350 probable). 21 new recoveries have been reported, bringing the total to 1,368. The Philippines has reported 147 cases, bringing the total to 10,610. The Philippines has reported 8 deaths, bringing the total to 704. Qatar has reported 1,130 cases, bringing the total to 21,331. Qatar has reported one death, bringing the death toll to 13. Russia has reported 10,817 cases, bringing the total to 198,676. Russia has reported 104 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,827. Singapore has reported 753 new cases, bringing the total to 22,460. South Korea has reported 18 new cases, bringing the total to 10,840. The country has reported 256 deaths. Spain has reported 721 new cases, bringing the total to 223,578. Spain has also reported 179 deaths, bringing the total to 26,478. Thailand has reported four new cases, bringing the total to 3,004. Thailand has also reported one death, bringing the death toll to 56. Ukraine has reported 515 new cases and 15 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 14,710 and 376 respectively; a total of 2,909 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 346 deaths, bringing the death toll to 31,587. The United States has reported a total of 1,342,329 cases, 79,906 deaths, and 232,821 recoveries.  In New York,  Governor   Andrew Cuomo  has announced that three more children have died of an infectious disease linked to COVID-19. 

10 May::WHO  Situation Report 111: Brazil has reported a total of 10,627 deaths and 155,939 cases. However, scientists believe that the real figures are higher due to a lack of widespread testing. Canada has reported 100 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,728. Canada has reported 1,216 new cases, bringing the total to 66,796. China has reported 14 new cases (12 community transmissions and 2 imported); 11 of these cases occurred in  Jilin  province and one in  Hubei . France has reported 70 new deaths, bringing the death toll to 26,380. 36 people have been discharged from intensive care, bringing the total number in intensive care down to 2,776. Germany has reported 667 new cases, bringing the total to 169,218. Germany has also reported 26 deaths, bringing the death toll to 7,395. Iran has reported 51 new deaths. Lebanon has reported 36 new cases, bringing the total to 845. Lebanon's death toll remains at 26. Malaysia has reported 67 new cases (49 of them foreigners), bringing the total to 6,656. 1,525 remain in hospital; 18 in intensive care and 6 on ventilators. 96 have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,025. The death toll remains at 108. New Zealand has reported two new cases (both confirmed), bringing the total to 1,494 (1,144 confirmed and 350 probable). Two people remain in hospital. Three people have recovered, bringing the total to 1,371. The Philippines has reported 184 new cases, bringing the total to 10,794. 15 deaths have been recorded, bringing the death toll to 719. 82 have recovered, bringing the total number of recovered to 1,924. Russia has reported 11,012 new cases, bringing the total to 209,668. Russia has reported 88 deaths, bringing the death toll to 1,195. Singapore has reported 876 new cases, bringing the total to 23,336. In addition, 33 false positive tests were recorded due to calibration issues in one of the test kits. South Korea has reported 34 new cases (26 community transmissions and eight imported). Most of these cases have been linked to night clubs in  Seoul 's  Itaewon  district. Spain has reported 143 deaths, bringing the death toll to 26,621. Spain has reported 224,390 casualties. Thailand has reported five new cases, bringing the total to 3,009. The death toll remains at 59. Turkey has reported a total of 137,115 cases and 3,739 deaths. Ukraine has reported 522 new cases and 15 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 15,232 and 391 respectively; a total of 2,909 patients have recovered. The United Kingdom has reported 269 deaths, bringing the national death toll to 31,855. In the United States, at least 25,600 residents and workers have died at nursing homes and other long-term care facilities for the elderly. The coronavirus has affected 143,000 people at about 7,500 facilities. A total of about 4 million cases, almost 1.4 million recoveries, and over 279,000 deaths have been reported globally. 

11 May::WHO  Situation Report 112: Malaysia has reported 70 new cases, bringing the total to 6,726. There are 1,504 active cases, with 20 cases in intensive care. 88 have been discharged, bringing the total number of recovered to 5,113. Malaysia has reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 109. New Zealand has reported three new cases (all confirmed), bringing the total to 1,497 (1,147 confirmed and 350 probable). 15 new recoveries have been reported, bringing the total to 1,386. The number of active cases has dropped below 90. Singapore has reported 486 new cases, bringing the total to 23,822. Subsequently, 35 false positive results were subtracted from the tally, bringing the total to 23,787. Another death was later confirmed, bringing the death toll to 21, with another who died from a heart attack and subsequently tested positive. Ukraine has reported 416 new cases and 17 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 15,648 and 408 respectively; a total of 3,288 patients have recovered. 

12 May::WHO  Situation Report 113: India has reported 87 deaths and 3,604 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 70,756. Malaysia has reported 16 more cases, bringing the total number to 6,742. 110 patients have recovered, bringing the total number to 5,223. The death toll remains at 109. New Zealand has reported no new cases, with the total remaining at 1,497 (1,147 confirmed and 350 probable). 12 new recoveries have been reported, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,398. Singapore has reported 884 new cases, bringing the total to 24,671. Two more deaths from other causes were recorded, subsequently tested positive. Ukraine has reported 375 new cases and 17 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 16,023 and 425 respectively; a total of 3,373 patients have recovered. 

13 May::WHO  Situation Report 114: Indonesia has reported 689 new cases, bringing the cases to 15,438. 21 have died, bringing the death toll to 1,028. 3,287 have recovered. Lesotho has reported its first case. Malaysia has reported 37 new cases (four imported and 33 local transmissions), bringing the total to 6,779. 58 have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,281. Malaysia has reported two deaths, bringing the death toll to 111. New Zealand has reported no new cases, with the total number of cases remaining at 1,497. NZ authorities have also reported four recoveries, bringing the total to 1,402. Singapore has reported 675 new cases, bringing the total to 25,346. Ukraine has reported 402 new cases and 14 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 16,425 and 439 respectively; a total of 3,716 patients have recovered. 

14 May::WHO  Situation Report 115: The Canadian province of Ontario has reported 345 new cases. Malaysia has reported 40 new cases bringing the total to 6,819. 70 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,351. Malaysia has also reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 112. New Zealand has reported no new cases, with the total remaining at 1,497. Nine people have recovered, bringing the total number of recovered to 1,411. Singapore has reported 752 new cases, bringing the total to 26,098. Ukraine has reported 422 new cases and 17 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 16,847 and 456 respectively; a total of 4,143 patients have recovered. 

15 May::WHO  Situation Report 116: Fiji has confirmed one recovery. Malaysia has reported 36 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 6,855. There are 1,304 active cases. 88 people have recovered, bringing the total number of recovered to 5,439. New Zealand has reported one new case, bringing the total to 1,498 cases (1,148 confirmed and 350 probable). 10 more people have recovered, bringing the total number to 1,421.  The new case was linked to the  Marist College  cluster. Singapore has reported 793 new cases, bringing the total to 26,891. Ukraine has reported 483 new cases and 20 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 17,330 and 476 respectively; a total of 4,473 patients have recovered. 

16 May::WHO  Situation Report 117: Malaysia has reported 17 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 6,782. 73 patients have recovered, bringing the total number to 5,512. Malaysian authorities have also reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 113. New Zealand has reported no new cases, with the total number remaining at 1,498. Seven people have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,428. Singapore has reported 465 new cases, bringing the total to 27,356. Another death was later confirmed, bringing the total to 22. Ukraine has reported 528 new cases and 21 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 17,858 and 497 respectively; a total of 4,473 patients have recovered. 

17 May::WHO  Situation Report 118: Malaysia has reported 22 new cases, bringing the total number to 6,894. There are 1,210 active cases while 59 have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,571. New Zealand has reported one new case, bringing the total number of confirmed and probable to cases to 1,499. There remain 45 active cases. Five more people have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,433.  The latest confirmed case is a  Canterbury  toddler linked to the Rosewood cluster in  Christchurch . Singapore has reported 682 new cases, bringing the total to 28,038. Ukraine has reported 433 new cases and 17 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 18,291 and 514 respectively; a total of 5,116 patients have recovered. 

18 May::WHO  Situation Report 119: Malaysia has reported 47 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 6,941. 44 have been discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,615. There are 1,213 active cases, with 13 in intensive care and six on ventilator support. New Zealand has reported no new cases, recoveries or deaths; with the total number of probable and confirmed cases remaining 1,499, recovered cases 1,433, and deaths 21. There remain 45 active cases with two remaining in hospitals. Singapore has reported 305 new cases, bringing the total to 28,343. Ukraine has reported 325 new cases and 21 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 18,616 and 535 respectively; a total of 5,276 patients have recovered. 

19 May::WHO  Situation Report 120: China has reported 6 new cases including one in Wuhan. Malaysia has reported 37 new cases, bringing the total number to 6,978. One more death has been reported, bringing the death toll to 114. 31 have recovered, bringing the total number of recovered to 5,646. There are 1,213 active cases, with 11 in intensive care and six on ventilator support. New Zealand has reported four new cases, bringing the total number of confirmed and probable cases to 1,503 (1,153 confirmed and 350 probable cases). Nine people have recovered, bringing the total number to 1,442. There are 40 active cases, down from five the day before. Singapore has reported 451 new cases, bringing the total to 28,794. Ukraine has reported 260 new cases and 13 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 18,876 and 548 respectively; a total of 5,632 patients have recovered. 

20 May::WHO  Situation Report 121: Malaysia has reported 31 new cases, bringing the total to 7,009.  60 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,706. There are 1,189 active cases in hospitals, with 11 in intensive care and seven on ventilator support. New Zealand has reported five new recoveries, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,447. There are 35 active cases with one case remaining in hospital. The total number of probable and confirmed cases stands at 1,503 while the death toll remains at 21. Singapore has reported 570 new cases, bringing the total to 29,364. Ukraine has reported 354 new cases and 16 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 19,230 and 564 respectively; a total of 5,955 patients have recovered. 

21 May::WHO  Situation Report 122: Malaysia has reported 50 new cases, bringing the total to 7,050. There are 1,149 active cases, ten in intensive care and seven on respirator support. 90 people were discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,796. New Zealand has reported five new recoveries, bringing the total number to 1,452. There are 30 active cases with one remaining in hospital. The total number of probable and confirmed cases stands at 1,502 while the death toll remains at 21. Singapore has reported 448 new cases, bringing the total to 29,812. Another death was later confirmed, bringing the total to 23. Ukraine has reported 476 new cases and 15 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 19,706 and 579 respectively; a total of 6,227 patients have recovered. 

22 May::WHO  Situation Report 123: Malaysia has reported 78 new cases, bringing the total number to 7,137. There are 1,163 active cases, with nine in intensive care and five on ventilator support. 63 have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,859. Malaysia also reported one new death, bringing the death toll to 115. New Zealand has reported one new case, bringing the total number of probable and confirmed cases to 1,504. Three people have recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,455. There are 28 active cases with one in hospital. Singapore has reported 614 new cases, bringing the total to 30,426. Ukraine has reported 442 new cases and 9 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 20,148 and 588 respectively; a total of 6,585 patients have recovered. 

23 May::WHO  Situation Report 124: Malaysia has reported 48 new cases, bringing the total to 7,185. There have been 1,158 active cases, with nine in intensive care and five on ventilator support. 53 have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,912. The death toll stands at 115. New Zealand has reported no new cases, deaths, and recoveries. The total number of confirmed and probable cases stands at 1,504; the death toll at 21; and the number of recoveries at 1,455. Singapore has reported 642 new cases, bringing the total to 31,068. Ukraine has reported 432 new cases and 17 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 20,580 and 605 respectively; a total of 6,929 patients have recovered. 

24 May::WHO  Situation Report 125: Brazil has reported a total of over 363,000 cases and nearly 23,000 deaths. Malaysia has reported 60 new cases, bringing the total to 7,245. There are 1,185 active cases, with nine in intensive care and four on ventilator support. 33 have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,945. The death toll remains at 115. New Zealand has reported one new recovery, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,456 and leaving 27 active cases. The total number of confirmed and probably cases remains at 1,154, and the death toll at 21. Singapore has reported 548 new cases, bringing the total to 31,616. Ukraine has reported 406 new cases and 12 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 20,986 and 617 respectively; a total of 7,108 patients have recovered. 

25 May::WHO  Situation Report 126: Malaysia has reported 172 new cases, bringing the total number of cases to 7,417. There are 1,410 active cases. 34 were discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 5,979. The death toll remains at 115. New Zealand has reported no new cases, recoveries, and deaths, which remain at 1,504 (1,154 confirmed and 350 probable), 1,456, and 21 respectively. There are 27 active cases. The Philippines has reported 284 new cases, bringing the total to 14,319. The Philippines also reported that 74 have recovered, bringing the total to 3,323. There were five new deaths, bringing the death toll to 873. Singapore has reported 344 new cases, bringing the total to 31,960. Ukraine has reported 259 new cases and 6 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 21,245 and 623 respectively; a total of 7,108 patients have recovered. 

26 May::WHO  Situation Report 127: Malaysia  has reported 187 new cases (10 imported and 177 local transmissions), bringing the total number to 7,604. Of the 177 local transmissions, 173 involved foreigners detained at immigration detention centres. 62 have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 6,041. There are 1,448 active cases in Malaysia; with eight in intensive care and five on ventilator support. New Zealand has reported five new recoveries, bringing the total number of recovered to 1,461. There are 22 active cases, with the total number confirmed and probable cases remaining 1,504. The death toll has remained at 21. Singapore has reported 383 new cases, bringing the total to 32,343. Ukraine has reported 339 new cases and 21 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 21,584 and 644 respectively; a total of 7,575 patients have recovered. The  George Floyd protests  begin in  Minneapolis .  Largely via  social media  they later spread throughout the country and around the world. Health experts and public officials have expressed concerns that these mass gatherings may cause an exacerbated spread of the virus since May 31st or earlier. 

27 May::WHO  Situation Report 128: Malaysia has reported 15 new cases (the lowest figure since the  movement control order  began on 18 March), bringing the total to 7,619. 42 have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 6,083. There are 1,421 active cases; with six in intensive care and four on ventilator support. The death toll remains at 115. New Zealand has reported one new recovery, bringing the total number of recovered to 1,462. There are 21 active cases, with the total number of confirmed and probably cases remaining 1,504. The death toll still stands at 21. Singapore has reported 533 new cases, bringing the total to 32,876. Ukraine has reported 321 new cases and 14 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 21,905 and 658 respectively; a total of 7,995 patients have recovered. The United States has reported 100,000 deaths as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic with 29,000 recorded in New York state. 

28 May::WHO  Situation Report 129: Malaysia has reported ten new cases, bringing the total number to 7,629. 86 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 6,169. There are 1,345 active cases, with eight in intensive care and four on ventilator support. The death toll remains at 115. New Zealand has reported 12 new recoveries, bringing the total number of recovered to 1,474. There remain eight active cases after a death was reported to be linked to the St Margaret's rest home cluster in  Auckland ; bringing the death toll to 22. The total number of cases remains at 1,504 (1,154 confirmed and 350 probables). Russia has reported 174 deaths, bringing the death toll to 4,142. Russia has also reported 8,371 new cases, bringing the total to 379,051. Singapore has reported 373 new cases, bringing the total to 33,249. Ukraine has reported 477 new cases and 11 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 22,382 and 669 respectively; a total of 8,439 patients have recovered. 

29 May::WHO  Situation Report 130: Malaysia has reported 103 new cases, bringing the total to 7,732. 66 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 6,235. There are 1,382 active cases, with eight in intensive care and two on ventilator support. New Zealand has reported seven new recoveries, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,481. There is one active case, with the total number of cases being 1,504 (1,154 confirmed and 350 probable). The death toll remains at 22. Singapore has reported 611 new cases, bringing the total to 33,860. Ukraine has reported 429 new cases and 10 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 22,811 and 679 respectively; a total of 8,934 patients have recovered. 

30 May::WHO  Situation Report 131: Malaysia has reported 30 new cases, bringing the total number to 7,762. 95 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recovered to 6,330. There are 1,137 active cases, with nine patients in intensive care and two on ventilator support.  The death toll remains at 115. New Zealand has reported no new cases, recoveries or deaths, with the total number remaining 1,504, 1,481, and 22 respectively. There remains only one active case. Singapore has reported 506 new cases, bringing the total to 34,366. Ukraine has reported 393 new cases and 17 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 23,204 and 696 respectively; a total of 9,311 patients have recovered. 

31 May::WHO  Situation Report 132: Malaysia has reported 57 new cases (10 imported and 47 local transmissions), bringing the total to 7,819 cases. 23 have been discharged, bringing the total number of recovered to 6,353. There are 1,351 active cases with nine in intensive care and two on ventilator support. New Zealand has reported no new cases, recoveries, or deaths, with the total number remaining 1,504, 1,481 and 22 respectively. There remains only one active case. Singapore has reported 518 new cases, bringing the total to 34,884.  Tests on all nursing homes found almost all residents and staff healthy except for five cases detected earlier. Ukraine has reported 468 new cases and 12 new deaths, bringing the total numbers to 23,672 and 708 respectively; a total of 9,538 patients have recovered. 