
Background::Main article:  Timeline of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019 Phylogenetic analyses  estimate that SARS-CoV-2 first arose in October or November 2019,  evolving from a coronavirus that infects wild bats and spreading to humans through an intermediary wildlife host.  While later research determined that a first patient began to show symptoms as early as 1 December 2019, a cluster of cases was not discovered until the end of December.  Retrospective study would later indicate that 266 people had been infected before the beginning of 2020.  On 31 December, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission released a briefing on its website about early signs of a pneumonia outbreak in the city.  International news agencies began to report on the outbreak that day,  as did the WHO and the US CDC. 

1 January::Xinhua News  reported that the  Huanan Seafood Market  was closed on 1 January 2020 for cleaning and disinfection. US CDC Director  Robert Redfield  was briefed about the severity of the virus from his Chinese counterpart  George F. Gao  when he was on vacation with his family according to reports, what he heard  rattled him . The WHO Newsroom stated that  the causal agent has not yet been identified or confirmed , and noted it had requested further information from the Chinese authorities to assess the risk. 

2 January::A later, February study of patients admitted to the hospital in Wuhan between 16 December 2019 and 2 January 2020 was able to identify, during this time period, a total of 41 patients had contracted the novel coronavirus, 27 (66 ) with direct exposure to Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market.  All 41 patients were subsequently relocated from the hospital they had originally been diagnosed in to the Jinyintan Hospital in Wuhan, China.  WHO declared that its three concerned levels (China country office, Regional Office for the Western Pacific and headquarters) have been working together to respond to the outbreak. 

3 January::The Chinese government formally notified the US of the outbreak. At a White House briefing in 20 March, Health and Human Services Secretary  Alex Azar  said officials had been alerted to the initial reports of the virus by discussions between CDC director  Robert Redfield  and Chinese CDC Director Gao on 3 January. Mr. Azar also told his chief of staff to make sure that the National Security Council was aware that  this (the outbreak) is a very big deal .  The BBC ran its first story on the outbreak. Health authorities in Wuhan reported 44 cases, a big jump from the 27 reported on Tuesday. Eleven of the 44 were seriously ill, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission said, although there had been no reported deaths to date. The health of the 121 close contacts of the cases was being monitored. Chinese scientists at the National Institute of Viral Disease Control and Prevention (IVDC) ruled out the possibilities for 26 common respiratory pathogens, including influenza A and B virus, parainfluenza virus, adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus metapneumovirus rhinovirus, enterovirus, and other common respiratory viruses. They determined the genetic sequence of the novel  -genus coronaviruses (naming it '2019-nCoV') from specimens collected from patients in Wuhan, China, and three distinct strains were established. China's  National Health Commission  (NHC) ordered institutions to not publish any information that related to the disease, and ordered labs to either transfer all samples to designated testing institutions, or destroy them. The order did not list any designated testing institutions. Li Wenliang , a Wuhan ophthalmologist, was summoned to the Wuhan Public Security Bureau where he was told to sign an official confession and admonition letter promising to cease spreading  false   rumors  regarding the coronavirus. In the letter, he was reprimanded for  making false comments by announcing the confirmation of 7 cases of SARS at the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market  that had  severely disturbed the social order . The letter stated,  We solemnly warn you: If you keep being stubborn, with such impertinence, and continue this illegal activity, you will be brought to justice is that understood  Li signed the confession writing:  Yes, I understand. 

4 January::The United Nations agency activated its incident-management system at the country, regional, and global level and was standing ready to launch a broader response if it was needed. The WHO's regional office in Manila said in Twitter posts Saturday:  China has reported to WHO regarding a cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, Hubei Province. The Govt has also met with our country office, and updated  WHO on the situation. Govt actions to control the incident have been instituted and investigations into the cause are ongoing.  The US CDC Director Redfield, following up the previous day's contact, emailed the Chinese CDC Director, Gao, formally offering to send US experts to China to investigate the outbreak. The head of the University of Hong Kong's Center for Infection, Ho Pak-Leung, warned that the city should implement the strictest possible monitoring system for a mystery new viral pneumonia that infected dozens of people on the mainland, as it was highly possible that the illness was spreading from human to human. The microbiologist also warned that there could be a surge in cases during the upcoming Chinese New Year. Ho said he hoped the mainland would release more details as soon as possible about the patients infected with the disease, such as their medical history, to help experts analyze the illness and to allow for more effective preventive measures to be put in place. The Singapore Ministry of Health said on Saturday, 4 January, that it had been notified of the first suspected case of the  mystery Wuhan virus  in Singapore, involving a three-year-old girl from China who had pneumonia and a travel history to the Chinese city of Wuhan.  On 5 January, the Singapore Ministry of Health released a press statement stating that the earlier suspected case was not linked to the pneumonia cluster in Wuhan and was also tested negative for the SARS and MERS-CoV. On 4 January, journalist Helen Branswell wrote that, while social media platforms suggested that China was not being transparent about the outbreak, scientists disagreed. Virologist Ralph Baric commented,  They have many of the best virologists in the world there that are working on this. 

5 January::The number of suspected cases reached 59 with seven in a critical condition. All were quarantined and local medical officials commenced the monitoring of 163 of their contacts. At this time, there had been no reported cases of human-to-human transmission or presentations in healthcare workers. Zhang Yong-Zhen , a virologist at Fudan University, deposits the second known complete genome (Wuhan-Hu-1) in sequence database  GenBank .  The sequence record was initially embargoed and thus not visible to the public. Early investigations into the cause of the pneumonia ruled out  seasonal flu , SARS,  MERS , and  bird flu . Disease Outbreak News  was WHO's first international media report summarizing details of the Wuhan outbreak. 

6 January::On Monday, 6 January, the Wuhan health authorities announced they continued seeking the cause but had so far ruled out influenza, avian influenza, adenovirus, and coronaviruses SARS and MERS as the respiratory pathogen that had infected 59 people as of 5 January.  The  New York Times  ran its first story on the outbreak. 

7 January::Scientists of the National Institute of Viral Disease Control and Prevention (IVDC) confirmed the novel coronavirus isolated on 3 January was the pathogenic cause of the viral pneumonia of unknown etiology (VPUE) cluster, and designated the disease as a novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia (NCIP).  Scientists in China announced the discovery of a new coronavirus. In a closed meeting of the  Politburo of the Chinese Communist Party ,  Xi Jinping   made requests for the prevention and control work of the coronavirus outbreak  and issued instructions to similar ends. This meeting occurred 13 days before Xi's first public comments on the outbreak on 20 January. Since the outburst of social media discussion of the mysterious pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan, China, Chinese authorities censored the hashtag  WuhanSARS and were now investigating anyone who was allegedly spreading misleading information about the outbreak on social media. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) created an  incident management system  and issued a travel notice Monday for travellers to Wuhan, Hubei province, China due to the cluster of cases of pneumonia of an unknown etiology . 

8 January::South Korea authorities put a 36-year-old Chinese woman under isolated treatment amid concerns that she had brought back a form of viral pneumonia that had sickened dozens in mainland China and Hong Kong in the previous weeks.  The unidentified woman, who worked for a South Korean company near capital Seoul, had experienced cough and fever since returning from a five-day trip to China on 30 December, the KCDC said in a press release. The woman had spent time in Wuhan, China, but had not visited the Huanan Seafood Market. 

9 January::First reported death The first death from the virus occurred in a 61-year-old man who was a regular customer at the market. He had several significant medical conditions, including chronic liver disease, and died from heart failure and pneumonia. The incident was reported in China by the  health commission  via  Chinese state media  on 11 January. The WHO confirmed that the novel coronavirus had been isolated from one person who had been hospitalized.  On the same day, the  European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control  posted its first risk assessment.  The WHO also reported that Chinese authorities had acted swiftly,  identifying the novel coronavirus within weeks of the onset of the outbreak, with the total number of positively tested people being 41. Chinese scientists reported on Chinese state broadcaster CCTV that they had found a new  coronavirus in 15 of 57 patients with the illness in the central city of Wuhan, saying it has been preliminarily identified as the pathogen for the outbreak .  The scientists announced that the current 'Wuhan Virus', a coronavirus, appears to not be as lethal as SARS. They reported that the new viral outbreak was first detected in the city of Wuhan on 12 December 2019.  Additionally, a total of 59 people have been identified as contracting the illness, seven patients had been in a critical condition at some stage, and no healthcare workers were reported as having been infected. 

10 January::Genome sequence becomes public The genome of the isolated 2019-nCoV, a virus from the same family as the SARS coronavirus, was posted on  Virological.org  by  Edward Holmes  on behalf of Zhang Yong-Zhen of Fudan University, Shanghai.  The sequence had already been uploaded to  GenBank  on 5 January 2020, but was embargoed and thus not available to the public. Shortly thereafter, three genetic sequences of the isolated novel coronavirus from the  Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention , one from the  Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences , and one from  Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital  were posted to  GISAID . On 10 January 2020, Li Wenliang, Chinese ophthalmologist and coronavirus whistleblower, started having symptoms of a dry cough. On 12 January 2020, Wenliang started having a fever. He was admitted to the hospital on 14 January 2020. His parents also contracted the coronavirus (presumably from Wenliang) and were admitted to the hospital with him. Wenliang tested negative several times for the coronavirus until finally testing positive on 30 January 2020.  He died on 7 February 2020. First two patients in  Shenzhen , Guangdong, China attend  University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital . 

11 January::The first two patients in Shenzhen city transferred into a negative pressure room in Third People's Hospital of Shenzhen City due to matching lab test results, symptoms, and epidemiology and are being listed as suspected cases. The cases were not confirmed at the time, because requirement from the Chinese government at the time was that first case in each city needs to be submitted to provincial CDC, verified by national CDC, and then evaluated and confirmed by a specific diagnostic team in national CDC. 

11–12 January::In China, more than 700 close contacts of the 41 confirmed cases, including more than 400 healthcare workers, had been monitored, with no new cases reported in China since 5 January.  Respiratory wards in Wuhan hospitals began reaching capacity around 12 January, with some people being denied care.  The WHO published initial guidance on travel advice, testing in the laboratory, and medical investigation.  The WHO said that  The  Chinese  government reports that there is no clear evidence that the virus passes easily from person to person . 

13 January::The US  CDC  announced that the genome had been posted on the  NIH  genetic sequence database,  GenBank .  On the same day, Thailand witnessed the first confirmed case of 2019-nCoV, the first outside China.  The affected 61-year-old Chinese woman, who is a resident of Wuhan, had not visited the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, but was noted to have been to other markets. She had arrived in Bangkok on 8 January.  In response, the WHO urged China to continue searching for the source of the new virus. 

14 January::WHO sent a tweet which said  preliminary investigations conducted by the Chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) identified in Wuhan, China .  According to Reuters in Geneva, WHO said there may have been limited human-to-human transmission of a new coronavirus in China within families, and it is possible there could be a wider outbreak. The Wuhan Municipal Health Committee published a Q amp;A regarding the coronavirus, stating:  current investigation hasn't found clear evidence of human to human transmission, however, the possibility of human to human transmission cannot be ruled out . Two of the 41 confirmed cases in Wuhan were reported to include a married couple, raising the possibility of human-to-human transmission. Maria Van Kerkhove , acting head of WHO's emerging diseases unit, said that there had been limited human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus, mainly small clusters in families, adding that  it is very clear right now that we have no sustained human-to-human transmission Under 'Disease Outbreak News', in an article titled 'Novel Coronavirus – Thailand (ex-China)', WHO advised: 'No additional cases have been detected since 3 January 2020 in China.' In a confidential government teleconference on 15 January, between Ma Xiaowei, the head of the  National Health Commission  and the provincial health authorities, the government internally acknowledged the threat of a pandemic due to the reporting of the Thailand viral infection a day earlier and the public health threat that New Year holiday travel presented for the further spread of the virus. 

15 January::A second death occurred in a 69-year-old man in China on 15 January. The first known travel-related case of 2019 novel coronavirus entered the United States:  The patient from Washington with confirmed 2019-nCoV infection returned to the United States from Wuhan on January 15, 2020. The patient sought care at a medical facility in the state of Washington, where the patient was treated for the illness. Based on the patient's travel history and symptoms, healthcare professionals suspected this new coronavirus. A clinical specimen was collected and sent to CDC overnight, where laboratory testing yesterday confirmed the diagnosis via CDC's Real-time Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR) test. The US embassy in China issued a Health Alert Watch Level 1 for an outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, preliminarily identified to be caused by a novel coronavirus. 

16 January::Researchers from the German Center for Infection Research (DZIF) at  Charit Universit tsmedizin Berlin developed a new laboratory assay to detect the novel coronavirus. The assay protocol has been published by the WHO as a guideline for diagnostic detection for 2019-nCoV. The new assay enables suspected cases to be tested quickly. The WHO was alerted by Japan's  Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare  that the first case in Japan, a 30-year-old male Chinese national had tested positive to 2019-nCoV during a hospital stay between 10 and 15 January. He had not visited the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, but possibly had close contact with an affected person in Wuhan. Despite these developments, up until at least 16 January, Wuhan officials stated there had been no new cases for about two weeks, and only minimal measures had been put in place to slow the spread of the disease.  This policy would not change until the arrival of an epidemiological team from Beijing on 18 January. 

17 January::On 17 January, Thailand's second confirmed case was reported in a 74-year-old woman who arrived in Bangkok on a flight from Wuhan.  The number of laboratory-confirmed cases rose to 45 in China. Yang Xiaobo , head of the Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, died of pneumonia caused by the virus on 17 January. US CDC dispatched 100 people to three American airports to screen travellers coming from Wuhan, China. 

18 January::An epidemiological team from Beijing led by renowned Chinese scientist  Zhong Nanshan  arrived in Wuhan and began an investigation into the epidemic.  Officials reported 17 additional laboratory-confirmed cases, three of which were in critical condition. This brought the number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China to 62. The patients' ages ranged from 30 to 79. Nineteen were discharged and eight remain critical. Controversially, the Wuhan City government held an annual banquet in the Baibuting community celebrating the Chinese New Year, preparing food at ten different locations for 40 thousand families and likely contributing to the spread of the virus.  On 21 January 2020 when Wuhan mayor Zhou Xianwang was asked on state television why this banquet was held even after the number of cases had risen to 312, he responded,  The reason why the Baibuting community continued to host the banquet this year was based on the previous judgment that the spread of the epidemic was limited between humans, so there was not enough warning. US Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar spoke to Trump on the phone about the virus, during which Trump interjected to ask when flavored vaping products would be back on the market. 

19 January::On 19 January, the first confirmed cases were reported in China, outside Wuhan, one in the southern province of Guangdong and two in Beijing.  Wuhan reported 136 additional laboratory-confirmed cases, bringing the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China to 201. A new death was also reported in Wuhan, bringing the total number of fatalities in China to three. 

20 January::On 20 January, after two medical staff were infected in Guangdong,  China National Health Commission  confirmed that the virus was human-to-human transmissible.  The investigation team from China's National Health Commission confirmed for the first time that the coronavirus can be transmitted between humans. Scientists from the China CDC identified three different strains of the 2019-nCoV, confirming that the original Wuhan coronavirus had mutated into two additional strains. Chinese Communist Party   general secretary  ( Paramount leader ),  Xi Jinping  said  people's lives and health should be given top priority and the spread of the outbreak should be resolutely curbed.   State Council   premier   Li Keqiang  urged decisive and effective efforts to prevent and control the epidemic.  First confirmed case reported in South Korea.  Beijing and Guangdong reported an additional three and thirteen laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively. Shanghai confirms its first case, bringing the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China to 218.  At least two people had become infected while living hundreds of miles from Wuhan. The United States and South Korea each reported their first confirmed case of the coronavirus to the World Health Organization on 20 January.  US CDC developed its own testing kit after China shared the genetic sequence on 10 January and deployed it to detect the first coronavirus case. The testing kit used three small genetic sequences instead of two used by Germany. The test kits were found to be defective because the third sequence, or  probe , gave inconclusive results.  US National Institutes of Health has begun development of a vaccine for the coronavirus. Five attendees of an as-yet-unnamed private international sales company meeting of 109 attendees, 94 from overseas, held from 20 to 22 January at the Grand Hyatt Hotel, Singapore, were diagnosed with the coronavirus upon returning home: one from Malaysia, two from South Korea, and two from Singapore.  One of the attendees was from Wuhan, China. It was reported that the company held a buffet for their delegates. These four diagnoses were not reported until 5 February 2020.  The first laboratory-confirmed case in Singapore of an unrelated 67-year-old native of Wuhan was not reported until 23 January 2020.  These cases linked to the meeting were the first evidence that the Wuhan coronavirus had spread through human-to-human contact outside China, which the WHO has said is deeply concerning and could signal evidence of a much larger outbreak.  As of 5 February 2020, the sister of a Malaysian who attended the meeting had been infected and four more local staff in Singapore were confirmed as having virus symptoms. 

21 January::A total of 291 cases have now been reported across major cities in China, including Beijing and Shanghai. However, most patients are in Wuhan, the central city of 11 million at the heart of the outbreak. A report by the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London suggested there could be more than 1,700 infections. However, Gabriel Leung, the dean of medicine at the University of Hong Kong, put the figure closer to 1,300. After 300 confirmed diagnoses and 6 deaths, Chinese state media warned lower-level officials not to cover up the spread of a new coronavirus.  Officials declared that anyone who concealed new cases would  be nailed on the pillar of shame for eternity , the political body responsible for law and order said. The outbreak has revived memories of the SARS virus when the local Chinese officials initially withheld information about the SARS epidemic from the public and later vastly under-reported the number of people that had been infected, downplayed the risks, and failed to provide timely information that experts say could have saved lives. In its commentary published online on Tuesday, 21 January 2020, the Communist Party's Central Political and Legal Commission talked of China having learned a  painful lesson  from the SARS epidemic and called for the public to be kept informed. Deception, it warned, could  turn a controllable natural disaster into a man-made disaster . The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission reported at least 15 medical workers in Wuhan have also been infected with the virus, with one in a critical condition. WHO  Situation Report 1:  (Please note that the WHO Situation Reports as official reportage stand on their own.) Confirmed cases were reported in several new locations in China.  Zhejiang  and  Tianjin  reported five and two laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively.  Guangdong reported three additional laboratory-confirmed cases.  Shanghai and  Henan  reported an additional four and one laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively.  One laboratory-confirmed case was reported in  Sichuan , and  Chongqing  reported five laboratory-confirmed cases.   Shandong , Hunan, and  Yunnan  all reported one laboratory-confirmed case each.   Jiangxi  reported two laboratory-confirmed cases.  The total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China increased to 312 and the death toll increased to six. New cases were also reported outside of mainland China. Taiwan reported its first laboratory-confirmed case,  and the United States reported its first laboratory-confirmed case in the  state of Washington , the first in North America. China's Wuhan Institute filed to patent the use of Gilead's remdesivir for the treatment of novel coronavirus. As a response to the confirmation of human-to-human transmission in China, the WHO announces a meeting to gauge the level of the global threat to evaluate whether it has reached the level of a  global health emergency . 

22 January::WHO  Situation Report 2: New cases:  Macau  and Hong Kong reported their first laboratory-confirmed cases,  with Hong Kong reporting its second on the evening of 22 January.  Beijing reported an additional five laboratory-confirmed cases, while Guangdong reported an additional nine laboratory-confirmed cases. Shanghai reported an additional five laboratory-confirmed cases, while Tianjin reported an additional two laboratory-confirmed cases. Zhejiang and Jiangxi reported an additional five and one laboratory-confirmed cases, respectively.   Liaoning  reported its first two laboratory-confirmed cases.   Guizhou , Fujian,  Anhui , Shanxi, and  Ningxia  reported one laboratory-confirmed case each.   Hainan  reported four laboratory-confirmed cases.  Hunan reported three additional laboratory-confirmed cases.   Guangxi  reported two laboratory-confirmed cases.  In all, the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in China increased to 571 and the death toll to 17. Internationally, two more laboratory-confirmed cases were reported in Thailand, raising the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in Thailand to four. New data showed indications of the current rapid spread of the disease and an increase in the rate of transmission. Officials announced a quarantine of the greater Wuhan, China area to commence on 23 January 2020 at 10:00 a.m. No traffic would be allowed in or out of the city. Zhou Xianwang, the mayor of Wuhan, admitted that his team had not released information about the virus in a  timely  manner, resulting in over 5 million people traveling out of the city before Wuhan was placed in quarantine. Zhou cited  party -reporting mechanisms , indicating that Wuhan needed authorization from the central government before they could make any announcement regarding the virus. The US embassy in China raised the Health Alert to level 2 (Practice Enhanced Precautions).  President Trump said during an interview at the Economic Forum in Switzerland that  It's one person coming in from China, and we have it under control. It's going to be just fine. The WHO Emergency Committee met in Geneva to consider whether the virus had reached the level of a  Public Health Emergency of International Concern . 

23 January::WHO  Situation Report 3: Jiangsu  reported its first laboratory-confirmed case.   Heilongjiang  reported its first two laboratory-confirmed cases.  Shanghai reported an additional seven laboratory-confirmed cases.   Xinjiang  reported two laboratory-confirmed cases.   Shaanxi  reported three laboratory-confirmed cases.   Gansu  reported two laboratory-confirmed cases.  Macau also reported its second laboratory-confirmed case, another 66-year-old man from Wuhan.  In all, the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases in mainland China increased to 628 while the death toll remained at 17. Singapore reported its first laboratory-confirmed case, a 66-year-old man from China.   Vietnam  confirmed its first two laboratory-confirmed cases, a 65- or 66-year-old father and 27- or 28-year-old son from China. A scientific preprint from the Wuhan institute of Virology is posted on  bioRxiv  (later published in  Nature ) announcing that a bat virus with 96  similarity had been sequenced in a Yunnan cave in 2013, whose sequence is posted the next day on public databases.  It is confirmed by comparing infectivity of cells expressing or not expressing  ACE2  that the novel coronavirus uses this same entry receptor as  SARS-CoV . Wuhan  suspended all public transportation  from 10 a.m. onwards, including all bus, metro, and ferry lines. Additionally, all outbound trains and flights were halted.  According to the Science magazine, the travel quarantine of Wuhan delayed the overall epidemic progression by only 3 to 5 days in Mainland China, but had a more marked effect at the international scale, where case importations were reduced by nearly 80  until mid February. Based on the considerations of the WHO Emergency Committee, the WHO declared the virus to not yet be an official  PHEIC , but warned that it was an emergency in China. 

24 January::A report by Chinese doctors and scientists published in  The Lancet  medical journal was titled  Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China . It indicated that people can be symptom-free for several days while the coronavirus is incubating, increasing the risk of contagious infection without forewarning signs. According to their data, 13 of the initial 41 cases of the novel coronavirus had no link with the wet market in Wuhan purported to be the origin of the disease, and the evidence taken as a whole indicated human transmission.  They strongly recommended  personal protective equipment  for health workers dealing with patients, stressed the need for testing for the virus, and because of its  pandemic potential  careful surveillance was essential. The significance of this was highlighted on 18 March by  Richard Horton , editor-in-chief of  The Lancet . One of the earlier studies on person-to-person transmission was published by Hong Kong doctors in  The Lancet  titled  A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster . In the  Evidence before this study , it declared that  we searched PubMed on Jan 13, 2020, with no starting date limitations, using the terms  family ,  pneumonia ,  Wuhan ,  coronavirus , and  novel  for articles in English. Our search did not reveal any reports of novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan before 2020. We only noted family clusters of pneumonia due to the novel severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus in 2003, and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in 2012. WHO  Situation Report 4: Shandong reported six additional laboratory-confirmed cases. Hunan reported 15 additional laboratory-confirmed cases. Liaoning reported one additional laboratory-confirmed case. Fujian reported one laboratory-confirmed case and two suspected cases. Anhui reported six additional laboratory-confirmed cases. Ningxia reported one additional laboratory-confirmed case. Shanghai reported 13 additional laboratory-confirmed cases, bringing the total up to 33. Japan, South Korea, and the United States all confirmed their second cases. Singapore confirmed its second and third cases. Thailand confirmed its fifth case. Hong Kong confirmed three additional cases, bringing the total number to five.  Nepal confirmed its first case, a student who returned from Wuhan. France reported its first three confirmed cases, the first occurrences in the EU.  The French Health Minister  Agn s Buzyn  stated that it is likely other cases would arise in the country. The first confirmed incidence of human-to-human transmission outside of China was documented by the WHO in Vietnam. A consortium of Chinese medical experts charged by the Chinese CDC with investigating the inception of the virus, published their report in  The Lancet , reporting details of 41 first known patients. By the end of the day, the entire Hubei province had gone under a city-by-city quarantine, apart from  Xiangyang  and  Shennongjia  Forestry District. 

25 January::General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party  Xi Jinping  called the  accelerating spread  of the coronavirus a  grave situation  in a  Party Politburo  meeting,  and that it was  mutating  as Beijing escalates measures to contain the illness. WHO  Situation Report 5: Australia confirmed its first four cases, one in  Victoria  and three in  New South Wales .  Malaysia reported its first three cases in  Johor Bahru ,  and a fourth case later.  Japan confirmed its third case.  Canada confirmed its first case in  Toronto  marking the beginning of the first wave bringing the total number to one.  Thailand added two new cases for a total of seven.  Singapore confirmed their fourth case. A Chinese and a Sri Lankan suspected with the infection were admitted to a hospital in Sri Lanka. Liang Wudong, a 62-year-old doctor, reportedly died in Hubei province from COVID-19. Following the confirmation of cases in Europe, the WHO released a statement noting that  the Time is now to 'act as one '  in fighting the virus. 

26 January::WHO  Situation Report 6: The  Spring Festival  holiday was extended to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Shanghai reported its first death, an 88-year-old man. The United States confirmed its third, fourth, and fifth cases: two in California  and one in  Arizona .  Macau confirmed three additional cases, bringing its total to five.  Hong Kong confirmed its sixth, seventh, and eighth cases.  South Korea has confirmed its third case.  Thailand has confirmed its eighth case. The first of five patients was already discharged. There are another 39 suspected cases awaiting confirmation. The  Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention  (CCDC) has started developing vaccines against the coronavirus, an official with the center said on Sunday. Health officials in Ivory Coast are dealing with a suspected case of COVID-19, the country's health ministry has announced. The United Nation's  WHO  Director-General  Tedros Ghebreyesus  said he was on his way to Beijing to confer with Chinese officials and health experts about the coronavirus outbreak. China started requiring nationwide use of monitoring stations for screening, identification, and immediate isolation of coronavirus-infected travelers, including at airports, railway stations, bus stations, and ports. A tentative clinical profile for the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was published by an assistant professor of population health science at the  Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai  in New York. The lethality of the virus is unknown; however, the death toll has now climbed to above three percent. Wang Xianliang, a Hubei provincial government official, died of pneumonia caused by the virus. 

27 January::WHO  Situation Report 7: Gabriel Leung, Dean of the University of Hong Kong medical school and one of the foremost world experts on SARS and viruses, gave a three-hour presentation published on YouTube wherein he made nowcasts and forecasts of the coronavirus. Using traditional scientific modeling techniques that predict the spread of viruses, Leung projected the true number of COVID-19 infections was likely 10 times more than the official reported numbers.  Leung estimated that there were between 44,000 and 100,000 infections in China as of 24 January 2020. He stated that draconian measures were needed to slow the progress of the virus but that these measures would have no effect in stopping the coronavirus pandemic. He projected that the number of infections would continue exponentially, peaking out in late April or May 2020. Leung predicted that, at the peak of the pandemic, there could be up to 100,000 new infections per day. Leung subsequently published an article in  The Lancet  nowcasting and forecasting the likely progression of the Wuhan coronavirus taking into consideration numerous variables.  Zhou Xianwang, the mayor of Wuhan, said on a Chinese state television talkshow that rules imposed by Beijing limited what he could disclose about the threat posed by the Wuhan coronavirus as it unfolded, suggesting  the central government was partially responsible for a lack of transparency that has marred the response to the fast-expanding health crisis. Canada reported its first confirmed case and another presumptive case bringing the total number to two.  Health officials have confirmed the fifth case of COVID-19 in Australia, and have suspected an additional five.  The Sri Lankan Health Ministry confirms its first case of COVID-19, a 43-year-old Chinese woman.  Cambodia confirms its first case of the virus, a Chinese man who came with his family to  Sihanoukville .  Singapore confirms a fifth case, a 56-year-old Chinese national who arrived from Wuhan on 18 January.  South Korea has confirmed its fourth case.  Germany confirmed its first case in  Bavaria , a case of domestic transmission.  Taiwan reports its first case of domestic transmission of COVID-19. Beijing reports its first death from COVID-19. Three new suspected cases in Austria; previous suspected cases tested negative.  The ' Matei Bal ' Institute reported the first possible case in Romania,  but the first case would not be confirmed until 26 February.  Ecuador reported a suspected case of coronavirus, a Chinese citizen who arrived from Hong Kong,  but the first case would not be confirmed until 29 February.  Fiji authorities were holding six Chinese travelers in quarantine in  Nadi  as a precaution after they failed to gain entry to Samoa due to Samoa's quarantine requirements that were implemented Friday. The quarantine requirements, imposed after an emergency Cabinet meeting, compel anyone who has been in China to  self-quarantine  in a country free from COVID-19 for 14 days.  In Poland, two children were admitted to the  Krak w  hospital with the suspicion of COVID-19.  In Mongolia, a 14-year-old girl, who was studying in China, had fallen ill with a suspected case of pneumonia and laryngitis; she was pronounced dead on the same day. Health authorities have since taken a sample from the deceased girl to be analyzed at the National Center for Communicable Diseases in  Ulaanbaatar .  Two Mongolian students returning from Taiwan to  Chinggis Khaan International Airport  had shown symptoms of high fever and rising temperature and were put into quarantine after landing in Mongolia.  In Switzerland, two people were put under quarantine at the  Triemli Hospital  in Zurich; both had previously been to China.  These cases later turned up negative. In Germany, the first specific, global case of coronavirus being transmitted by a person with no symptoms has been reported. The originally-infected individual is from Shanghai. South Korean health officials met with Korean life science company representatives to speed the development of a test. In the US, there was a surge of warnings from its intelligence agencies toward the end of January and into early February. The then-acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney began convening regular meetings. In early briefings, however, officials said Trump was dismissive because he did not believe that the virus had spread widely throughout the United States. The WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus visited in China to discuss the outbreak with senior Chinese officials. 

28 January::China's Supreme People's Court through a message  in its official WeChat account vindicated  Li Wenliang  and the other seven doctors and said they should not have been punished as what they said was not entirely false.  The Court further stated that  based on the difference in cognitive level, different individuals may produce different degrees of false information about the same thing. We should permit the law to have a certain degree of tolerance towards individuals. For example, in the case of the 8 persons being punished by Wuhan Police for publishing '7 SARS cases diagnosed in the Huanan Seafood Market', if we mechanically apply the law, since the new coronavirus infected pneumonia is not SARS, by saying SARS has emerged, we can indeed determine that is the fabrication of false information, and the information has caused chaos in the social order. In accordance with the law provided, administrative punishment and even criminal punishment can be justified for the act of fabricating and disseminating false information. However, the fact is the message is not entirely false. If society had at the time believed those 'rumours', and wore masks, used disinfectant and avoided going to the wildlife market as if there were a SARS outbreak, perhaps it would have helped us better control the coronavirus today . WHO  Situation Report 8: Thailand confirms six more cases, bringing the total infected there to 14. Thailand's health minister,  Anutin Charnvirakul , states that  we are not able to stop the spread  of coronavirus in the country.  Singapore confirms two more cases, bringing the total infected in Singapore to seven. That was followed by a Hubei-related suspension from 29 January.  Japan confirms three additional cases, bringing the total infected in Japan to seven, including a man who had never visited Wuhan. He was working as a tour bus driver and had driven a group from Wuhan earlier in January.  Germany's first confirmed case, reported the previous day, had occurred in a German citizen who had not traveled to China. However, he had close contact with a visiting Chinese colleague who reported starting to feel ill during her return flight to Shanghai and she was diagnosed with a coronavirus infection after arriving in China. Germany confirmed three new cases, all of whom were coworkers of the first confirmed patient.  France confirmed its fourth case, an elderly Chinese tourist who is in critical condition. The Brazilian  Ministry of Health  reports three suspected cases ongoing in three locations:  Belo Horizonte  (MG),  Curitiba  (PR), and  S o Leopoldo  (RS).  Canada reports a new presumptive case in  British Columbia , a man in his 40s who had recently traveled to Wuhan bringing the total number to three. A UK-Chinese medical research paper reports a statistical model finding that  estimates suggest the actual number of infected cases could be much higher than the reported, with estimated 26,701 cases (as of 28 January 2020). Scientists from The Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity (Doherty Institute) in Melbourne reported that they had successfully grown 2019-nCoV from a patient sample. A senior medical adviser at the Department of Veterans Affairs, Carter Mecher, wrote on the night of 28 January, in an email to a group of public health experts scattered around the government and universities.  The projected size of the outbreak already seems hard to believe. 

29 January::WHO  Situation Report 9: Tibet  reported its first suspected case identified on the previous day  and declared a level 1 health emergency in the evening, the last mainland provincial division to do so.  Suspected cases have now been reported in all 31 mainland provincial divisions. Companies in Hubei are required not to resume services before 13 February, and schools in Hubei are to postpone reopening. The  UAE  confirms its first case.  Shortly afterwards, an  Emirates ' news agency confirmed four people from a Chinese family to be infected.  Finland reports its first case of the virus in  Lapland , found in a Chinese tourist who left Wuhan before Wuhan was locked down.  Singapore confirms three more cases of the virus, bringing the total infected to 10.  Malaysia confirms three additional cases, bringing its total to seven.  Japan reports four additional cases, including a tour bus guide that was on the same bus as one of the cases confirmed on 28 January  and three evacuated from Wuhan.  France confirmed a fifth case, the daughter of the patient in the fourth case. Two Chinese nationals were placed in isolation wards in  Armenia  amid the first suspected case of COVID-19 in the country. The Chinese nationals were tourists traveling to Armenia from neighboring  Georgia . Liana Torosyan, the head of the Department of Infectious Diseases, advised that samples will be sent to European labs, as Armenia does not have the capacity to test for the novel coronavirus.  Brazil reports a total of nine suspected cases in six states of the country. Air Canada was halting all direct flights to China following the federal government's advisory to avoid non-essential travel to the mainland due to the 2019-nCoV epidemic. The suspension was effective Thursday and slated to last until 29 February. Trump administration trade advisor  Peter Navarro  issued a memo warning that coronavirus could  evolv e  into a full-blown pandemic, imperiling the lives of millions of Americans  and that the  risk of a worst-case pandemic scenario should not be overlooked . A critic of the Chinese government before the pandemic, Navarro argued for restrictions on travel from China. The Wuhan police clarified that Li Wenliang was not arrested nor fined, but was warned as he had spread that  there had been 7 confirmed cases of SARS , which was not true. The WHO confirmed over 6,000 confirmed cases in China to date. 

30 January::WHO  Situation Report 10: WHO declared the virus was a  Public Health Emergency of International Concern  and advised  all countries should be prepared for containment, including active surveillance, early detection, isolation and case management, contact tracing and prevention of onward spread of 2019-nCoV infection, and to share full data with WHO. Tibet confirms its first case, which was previously suspected.  Cases have now been confirmed in all 31 provincial divisions of mainland China.  India confirms its first case of coronavirus in a student who had returned from  Wuhan University  to the Indian state of  Kerala .  Philippines confirms its first case of coronavirus in a female Chinese national who arrived in  Manila  via Hong Kong on 21 January.  Japan confirms three more cases, bringing the total to 14.  Malaysia confirms one more case, bringing the total to eight.  Singapore confirms three more cases, bringing the total to 13.  South Korea confirms two more cases with one of them being the first human-to-human transmission there, bringing the total to six.  Vietnam confirms three new cases, bringing the total to five.  France confirms its sixth case.  Italy confirms its first two cases in a press conference by the Prime Minister,  Giuseppe Conte .  Germany confirms its fifth case, an employee of the company where the four previously known cases are also employed. The United States confirmed its sixth case, the spouse of another patient in Chicago.  This is the first confirmed case of human-to-human transmission within the United States. Azar, Redfield, and Anthony S. Fauci agreed that a ban on travel from the epidemic's center could buy some time to put into place prevention and testing measures.  There was so much we didn't know about this virus,  Redfield said in an interview,  We were rapidly understanding it was much more transmissible, that it had a great ability to go global. 

31 January::WHO  Situation Report 11: The United Kingdom and Russia confirmed their first coronavirus infections.  The first Swedish and Spanish cases were confirmed.  The seventh confirmed case in the US is in  Santa Clara County, California .  A fourth case of coronavirus in Canada has been confirmed in  London , Ontario bringing the total number to four.  Thailand confirmed five more cases with the first human-to-human virus transmission inside the country of a local taxi driver, bringing the total to 19.  Singapore confirmed three more cases including the first Singaporean patient, bringing the total to 16.  South Korea confirmed five more cases, bringing the total to 11.  Chinese health experts warn the public that coronavirus patients can become reinfected. China starts repatriating citizens to  Wuhan . A senior leader at US Department of Health and Human Services said staff members were sent to Travis Air Force Base and March Air Reserve Base in late January and early February and were ordered to enter quarantined areas were not provided with proper safety-protocol training or equipment, with at least one person staying in a nearby hotel and leaving California on a commercial flight.  US bans the entry of foreign nationals who had been to China in the previous 14 days. 
1 February::WHO  Situation Report 12:  (Please note that the WHO Situation Reports as official reportage stand on their own.) Australia reported another three cases, including the first two cases in  South Australia , bringing their total to 12. Japan reported three more cases, increasing their total to 20. Singapore confirms two more cases, bringing the total to 18. South Korea confirmed the 12th case of the coronavirus: a 49-year-old Chinese man who works as a Japanese tour guide in western  Seoul . Spain confirmed its first case of the virus on La Gomera in the Canaries. The United States of America reported its eighth case, a man from  Boston  who recently returned to college after traveling to Wuhan. Vietnam confirmed its sixth case in  Kh nh H a Province , another domestic transmission in direct contact. 

2 February::WHO  Situation Report 13: India announced its second case. The Philippines saw the first confirmed death from COVID-19 outside mainland China announced. The case was that of a 44-year-old male who was the companion of the first confirmed case in the country; both are Chinese nationals from Wuhan who had arrived in the country via Hong Kong on 21 January. He had been in stable condition prior to his death on 1 February. South Korea reported three more cases, bringing their total to 15. The United Arab Emirates reported its fifth case. The United States of America, confirmed three more cases, all in California, bringing the total to 11.  Two Germans aboard the evacuation flight from Wuhan tested positive for the virus, bringing the number of cases there up to 12. Vietnam announced its seventh case of COVID-19, a Vietnamese-American who had had a two-hour layover at Wuhan Airport. 

3 February::WHO  Situation Report 14: The number of deaths in Hubei outside Wuhan reached 101. According to the WHO, there were no new countries reporting cases in the past 24 hours. India confirmed its third case in  Kerala . Vietnam announced its eighth COVID-19 case, a Vietnamese woman who had been on the same flight with three other positive cases. 

4 February::WHO  Situation Report 15: Belgium confirmed its first case, bringing the total in the European Union to 24. Canada announced one presumptive case in British Columbia bringing the total number to five. Hong Kong confirmed its first death from a 39-year-old patient, the 13th confirmed case in the city. Malaysia confirmed two more COVID-19 cases, which included a Malaysian citizen, bringing the total to 10 cases. Singapore confirmed six more cases, including the first locally transmitted cases involving four, bringing the total to 24. Two others came from an evacuation plane from Wuhan. South Korea confirmed its 16th case after a tourist returned from Thailand, the first to have been infected there. Thailand confirmed six more cases, bringing the total to 25. Vietnam announced its ninth and tenth COVID-19 case, including a Vietnamese man who had been on the same flight with four other positive cases. 

5 February::WHO  Situation Report 16: China, in Wuhan now reported 10,117 cases in total, exceeding 10,000.  Tianjin, reported its first death. Chinese experts said that nucleic acid testing was only able to identify 30 –50  positive cases. Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total to 21. Japan confirmed 10 new cases from the quarantined cruise ship  Diamond Princess , near Yokohama, bringing the total number up to 35 cases. There were more than 3,500 on board to be tested. Malaysia announced two more cases, bringing the total cases to 12. The Philippines confirmed its third positive case, a 60-year-old woman from Wuhan, China. Singapore confirmed four more cases, including a six-month-old Singaporean, bringing the total cases to 28. South Korea confirmed two more cases of COVID-19, including a patient who returned from Singapore, bringing the total cases to 18.  Another case was later reported, bringing the total cases to 19. The United States of America saw health officials in the state of Wisconsin announce the first case in that state. 

6 February::WHO  Situation Report 17: Canada announced two presumptive cases in  British Columbia  bringing the total number to seven. China, in Zhejiang over 1,000 cases were confirmed, the first such province besides Hubei.  Doctor  Li Wenliang , who notified his class colleagues in a private chat room on social media of the coronavirus, died of the infection. Germany confirmed its 13th case, and Italy confirmed its third, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in Europe to 31. Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total to 24. Japan confirmed another 10 new cases from  Diamond Princess , quarantined in Yokohama, bringing the total to 45. Malaysia confirmed two more cases, bringing the total to 14. One of the cases was locally transmitted, the first in Malaysia. Singapore confirmed two more cases, bringing the total to 30. South Korea confirmed four more cases, bringing the total to 23. Taiwan announced three more cases, bringing the total to 16. The United Kingdom saw the third case confirmed, with the patient having visited Singapore. A patient in San Jose, California became the first COVID-19 death in the United States discovered by April 2020. She died at home without any known recent foreign travel, after being unusually sick from flu in late January, then recovering,  remote working , and suddenly dying on 6 February. A 7 February autopsy  was completed in April (after virus tests on tissue samples) and attributed the death to Transmural Myocardial Ischemia (Infarction) with a Minor Component of Myocarditis due to COVID-19 Infection. Her case indicates that community transmission was happening undetected in the US, most likely since December. Vietnam confirmed two more cases, bringing the total to 12. 

7 February::WHO  Situation Report 18: China Guangdong confirmed over 1,000 cases in total, the second such province outside Hubei, and recorded its first death. Wuhan reported 67 more deaths, bringing the total number of people killed by the virus there to 545; other cities in Hubei reported 14 deaths in total, their net figure now reaching 154. Another 41 tested positive for the coronavirus on  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number of cases in Japan to 86. Germany announced its 14th case. Hong Kong confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 26. Malaysia confirmed one more case from a tourist entering from Singapore, bringing the total to 15. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total to 33. Most of these cases were initially of unknown origin, causing the Disease Outbreak Response System Condition (DORSCON) level to increase to Orange. South Korea confirmed one more case, bringing the total to 24. Vietnam confirmed one additional case, bringing the total to 13. 

8 February::WHO  Situation Report 19: China: Wuhan confirmed 63 more deaths, bringing its total to 608;  this now includes a Japanese citizen and a US citizen dying on this day. Henan became the third province besides Hubei to report over 1,000 cases.  Nationally, the number of cases outside Hubei exceeded 10,000. Aerosol  was confirmed as a medium of transmission for the first time. Beijing reported a first type of case involving a patient, who tested positive after three negative test results, and  Qingtian ,  Zhejiang  reported a case where the patient tested positive only after being tested for the fifth time. France confirmed five cases involving British nationals, bringing the total number to 11. In Japan, three more cases tested positive on  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number of cases in Japan to 89. Malaysia confirmed one more case, bringing the total to 16. Singapore confirmed seven more cases, bringing the total to 40. Thailand confirmed seven additional cases, bringing the total to 32. The United Arab Emirates confirmed two more cases, bringing the total to seven. 

9 February::WHO  Situation Report 20: China (Mainland) now confirmed a total of 40,213 cases, exceeding 40,000, of which 29,631 were in Hubei.  The coronavirus death toll in China rose to 811, surpassing the toll from the  SARS epidemic  from 2002 to 2003. Hong Kong confirmed 10 more cases, with nine from the same family, bringing the total number to 36. Malaysia confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 17. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 43. South Korea reported three new cases of the virus, bringing the country's total to 27. Spain confirmed the second case in the country in  Palma de Mallorca . Taiwan confirmed its 18th case. The United Kingdom confirmed its fourth case. Vietnam confirmed its 14th case, a 55-year-old woman in  V nh Ph c . Six more cases were confirmed aboard  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number of cases on the ship to 70, with Japan having 96 cases. 

10 February::WHO  Situation Report 21: Hong Kong confirmed six more cases, bringing the total number to 42. Japan confirmed 65 more cases on  Diamond Princess , bringing the total to 135. Malaysia confirmed one more case involving a citizen, bringing the total to 18. Singapore confirmed another two cases, including a  Certis  officer who served Quarantine Orders, bringing the total to 45. The United Arab Emirates confirmed its eighth case, an Indian national. The United Kingdom saw four additional cases were confirmed, bringing the total to eight. The transmission in these cases is believed to have occurred in France. The United States of America confirmed its 13th case in  San Diego , a patient who had been evacuated from Wuhan. 

11 February::WHO  Situation Report 22: Germany confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 16. Hong Kong confirmed seven more cases, bringing the total to 49. Singapore confirmed another two cases, bringing the total to 47. South Korea confirmed one more case, a 30-year-old Chinese woman, bringing the total number to 28. Thailand confirmed one new case, bringing the total in the country to 33. Vietnam confirmed its 15th case, a three-month-old baby infected by her grandmother. The WHO gives the disease the new name  COVID-19 .  Additionally, the virus itself is named  SARS-CoV-2 . 

12 February::WHO  Situation Report 23: Hong Kong confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 50. Japan confirmed 39 more cases on  Diamond Princess , including one quarantine officer, bringing the total to 174.  Another case was reported in Japan itself, bringing the total number to 29. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total to 50.  Earlier, 300 employees of  DBS Bank  were asked to evacuate from the office at  Marina Bay Financial Centre  Tower 3 due to a confirmed case there. In the United Kingdom, the first case in London was confirmed, bringing the country's total to nine. The United States of America confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 14. 

13 February::WHO  Situation Report 24: Japan confirmed four more cases, bringing the total to 33.  At the same time, 44 new cases were confirmed on the  Diamond Princess , bringing the total to 218.  Later on, Japan confirmed its first death from the virus. Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 53. Malaysia confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 19. Singapore confirmed eight more cases, bringing the total number to 58. A school in  National University of Singapore  would conduct e-learning from 14 to 21 February as a precaution after one of the cases involved a professor. The United States of America, the CDC confirmed the 15th US coronavirus case, a Wuhan evacuee quarantined at a military base in  Texas . Vietnam confirmed its 16th case. Discrepancy in the number of cases The same day, Hubei reported newly confirmed cases of 14,840, nearly 10 times more than the previous day, while deaths more than doubled to 242. This was due to the change in definition that included clinical (radiological) diagnosis of patients.  The World Health Organization indicated that, for consistency, it would report only the number of laboratory-confirmed cases. 

14 February::WHO  Situation Report 25: Canada confirmed  British Columbia 's fifth presumptive case, bringing the total number in the country to eight. Egypt confirmed its first case, a foreigner of undisclosed nationality. This was the first case on the African continent. Hong Kong confirmed three more infections, bringing the total number to 56. Japan confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 37. Singapore confirmed nine more cases, bringing the total number to 67. 

15 February::WHO  Situation Report 26: France saw the first death outside Asia being confirmed, an 80-year-old Chinese tourist in France. The country also confirmed its 12th case. Japan confirmed nine additional confirmed cases not aboard  Diamond Princess .  Japan also confirmed 67 additional cases aboard the cruise ship  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number of cases from the ship to 285. Malaysia confirmed three more cases, including an American passenger from the cruise ship  MS Westerdam  flying from Cambodia, bringing the total number to 22. Singapore confirmed five more cases, bringing the total number to 72. Thailand confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 34. 

16 February::WHO  Situation Report 27: Hong Kong confirmed one new coronavirus case, bringing the total to 57. Japan also confirmed six new cases, bringing the total of infected people not aboard  Diamond Princess  to 59.  On  Diamond Princess , 70 additional cases were confirmed, increasing the tally to 355. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 75. South Korea confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 29. Taiwan confirmed its first death from COVID-19, a man in his 60s. Moreover, two new cases were confirmed, bringing the total number to 20. The United Arab Emirates confirmed one more case, a 37-year-old Chinese citizen, bringing the total number to nine. 

17 February::WHO  Situation Report 28: Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 60. Japan confirmed seven new cases, bringing the total of infected people not aboard  Diamond Princess  to 66.  Diamond Princess  in Japan confirmed 99 new coronavirus cases, bringing the total number of infected people on the cruise ship to 454. Singapore confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 77. South Korea confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 30. Taiwan confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 22. Thailand confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 35. The United States had its second known death from COVID-19, from unknown (community) transmission to a 69-year-old man in Santa Clara County, California. This death was attributed to COVID-19 in April by a delayed autopsy. 

18 February::WHO  Situation Report 29: Hong Kong confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 62. Japan confirmed eight more cases across the nation, bringing the total to 74. At the same time, 88 additional cases aboard  Diamond Princess  were confirmed, bringing the total on the ship to 542. Singapore confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 81. South Korea confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 31. 

19 February::WHO  Situation Report 30: Hong Kong confirmed its second death from the coronavirus. In addition, three new cases were confirmed, bringing the total number in Hong Kong to 65. Iran confirmed its first two cases resulting in deaths. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 84. South Korea confirmed 20 more cases, bringing the total number to 51 with the majority of these transmissions happening in a church in Daegu. Taiwan confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 23. Passengers started to disembark from  Diamond Princess , one of the cruise ships in the outbreak. The sheer number of passengers infected has led to questions over the effectiveness of quarantine measures.  On the cruise ship, 79 more cases were confirmed, bringing the total number to 621. 

20 February::WHO  Situation Report 31: Canada confirms one more case, a woman who had recently visited Iran, bringing the total number to nine. Hong Kong confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 69. Iran confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to five. Japan confirmed 10 more domestic cases, bringing the total number to 94. Singapore confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 85. South Korea confirmed 53 more cases, bringing the total number to 104. The first death from the virus was also confirmed. Taiwan confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 24. The United States confirmed one more case in California, bringing the total number to 16. Two deaths were confirmed aboard the cruise ship  Diamond Princess  along with 13 more cases, bringing the total number to 634. 

21 February::WHO  Situation Report 32: Australia confirmed four more cases involving evacuees from the cruise ship  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number to 19. Israel also confirmed its first case, an evacuee from  Diamond Princess . Italy confirmed 17 cases, bringing the total number to 20. Authorities also reported the first death, a 78-year-old man. Iran announces 13 new cases, bringing the total to 18. Two more deaths were also confirmed. Japan confirmed 15 more cases, bringing the total number to 109. Lebanon confirmed its first case. Singapore confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 86. South Korea confirmed 100 more cases, bringing the total number to 204.  The country also reported its second death. Taiwan confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 26. The United Arab Emirates confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 11. The United States confirmed 20 more cases, bringing the total number to 35.  Furthermore, the  Association of Public Health Laboratories  (APHL) announced that only three states were capable of testing for the coronavirus: California, Nebraska, and Illinois. In addition, the first known case of COVID-19 occurred in New Zealand, and was retroactively reported on 23 September. 

22 February::WHO  Situation Report 33: Australia confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 22. Hong Kong confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 70. Iran confirmed 10 more cases, bringing the total number to 28. A fifth death was also confirmed. Italy confirmed 59 more cases spread across three different administrative regions, bringing the total number to 79, making Italy the European country with the biggest number of cases of coronavirus infections.  The second death was also confirmed, an Italian woman from Lombardy. Japan confirmed 26 more cases, bringing the total number to 135. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 89. South Korea confirmed 229 more cases, bringing the total number to 433.  Concerns are raised that nine tourists from South Korea may have caused a widespread exposure in Israel. The United Arab Emirates confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 13. The urine sample of a patient tested positive. A genome analysis indicated that the virus in  Huanan Seafood Market  originated from outside. 

23 February::WHO  Situation Report 34: Canada confirmed one more presumptive case in Ontario. The samples had been sent to the National Microbiology Lab for further testing bringing the total number to 10. Hong Kong confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 74. Iran confirmed 15 more cases and two more deaths, bringing the total number to 43 and 8, respectively. Israel confirmed one more case, who was a passenger on the cruise ship, bringing the total number to two. Italy confirmed 73 new cases, bringing the total to 152 spread across five different administrative regions.  The third death was also reported.  Italy is now the third country in the world by number of cases, after China and South Korea. South Korea confirmed 169 more cases, bringing the total number to 602. Four more deaths were also confirmed, bringing the total to six. Taiwan confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 28. The United Kingdom confirmed four new cases, all involving evacuees from the Diamond Princess cruise ship, bringing the total number to 13. There were 57 more cases aboard  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number to 691. One death associated to the cruise ship was also confirmed, bringing the total number to three. 

24 February::WHO  Situation Report 35: Afghanistan confirmed its first case involving a person who recently returned from the Iranian city of Qom. Bahrain confirmed its first case involving a Bahraini citizen who traveled to Iran. Canada confirmed one more case in British Columbia, bringing the total number to 11. Hong Kong confirmed seven more cases, bringing the total number to 81. Iran confirmed 18 more cases, bringing the total number to 61. Four more deaths were also reported in the country, bringing the total number to 12. Iraq confirmed its first case involving an Iranian student. Italy confirmed 74 new cases, bringing the total to 229 spread across six different administrative regions.  Four more deaths were also confirmed, bringing the total number to seven. Kuwait announced their first cases involving five people arriving from the Iranian city of Mashhad. Oman confirmed its first cases involving two Omani women who had come from Iran. Singapore confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 90. South Korea confirmed 231 more cases, bringing the total number to 833. The seventh death was also confirmed. Spain confirmed its third positive case, an Italian man, in Tenerife, Canary Islands. Taiwan confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 30. The United States confirmed 18 more cases including evacuated passengers from the cruise ship, bringing the total number to 53. A patient in  Sichuan  province tested positive only on her ninth test. 

25 February::WHO  Situation Report 36: Algeria reported its first case, an Italian man who arrived on 17 February. Austria reported its first two cases, two Italians living in Tyrol tested positive for the coronavirus. Bahrain confirmed its second case, a Bahraini woman who had traveled from Iran through Dubai International Airport.  This later increased to eight confirmed cases with the addition of two Bahraini men and four Saudi Arabian women.  Later on the same day, Bahrain updated the number of cases to 17, with all infected people travelling from Iran.  This total later rose again to 23 cases, again all having traveled from Iran. Brazil Ministry of Health reported the first positive case of coronavirus in the country and South America, a 61-year-old man from  S o Paulo , who traveled to  Lombardy ,  Italy , between 9 and 21 February. He was showing mild symptoms and quarantined at home; the confirmation test was also positive. Croatia announced its first case of the virus, with a patient hospitalized in the capital, Zagreb, who had traveled to Italy and stayed in Milan. France saw two additional cases: one was a French man returning from a trip in the Lombardy region of Italy; the other was a young Chinese woman returning to France from a trip to China. This took the total number of cases in the country to 14. Germany saw a case identified in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia of a person recently returned from Italy, taking the country's cases to 17. Another man was later confirmed to be positive, bringing the total number to 18. Hong Kong confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 84. Iranian officials confirmed the death toll was officially now 16. There were 34 more cases, bringing the total number to 95.  The same day, Iranian MP  Mahmoud Sadeghi  confirmed he had tested positive for the virus,  along with  Iraj Harirchi , the Deputy Minister for Health, who had the previous day been part of a press conference about Iran's handling of the virus. Iraq confirmed five more cases an Iranian student and a family of four who had arrived from Iran, taking the total number of cases to six. Italy confirmed 94 new cases, bringing the total to 323 spread across nine different administrative regions. Three more deaths were also confirmed, bringing the total number to 10.  This later in the day rose to four deaths, bringing the total to 11. Kuwait confirmed four additional cases, all of them people who had returned from Iran, taking their total to nine cases. Oman confirmed two additional cases, taking its total to four cases. Both the additional cases were linked to travel to Iran. Singapore confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 91. South Korea confirmed 144 more cases, bringing the total number to 977. Four more deaths were also confirmed, bringing the total to 11.  Among those infected included a  Korean Air  crew member. On the island of Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain, two Italian hotel guests tested positive for the virus. This resulted in hundreds of guests at the H10 Costa Adeje Palace hotel being isolated to facilitate further testing and to halt the spread of the disease.  Later in the day, the first case was reported in mainland Spain, with a woman from Catalonia, who had recently returned from Italy, diagnosed in Barcelona.  A seventh case was confirmed in the late evening by the Madrid regional government. Switzerland's government announced the first infection in the country. Taiwan confirmed one more case, an 11-year-old boy, bringing the total number to 31. Thailand reported two more cases, taking its total to 37. The two new cases, both Thai nationals, were people who were being monitored due to the travel history of others who had traveled to countries with infection risks. The fourth death associated with  Diamond Princess  was confirmed. 

26 February::WHO  Situation Report 37:  The WHO Director-General,  Tedros Adhanom , noted that  14 countries that have had cases have not reported a case for more than a week, and even more importantly, 9 countries have not reported a case for more than two weeks: Belgium, Cambodia, Finland, India, Nepal, Philippines, the Russian Federation, Sri Lanka and Sweden. Australia confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 23. Bahrain confirmed three additional cases, bringing its total to 26.  Later in the evening, it confirmed another seven cases, taking the total to 33. Canada confirmed a new case in Toronto of a woman with travel history to Iran. This took the country's total to 12. Croatia confirmed its second and third cases, the second being the twin brother of the first patient  and the third being a man who works in Parma, Italy. Finland reported its second case. France confirmed three new cases, taking it to 17 cases. It also announced its second death from the disease, a 60-year-old French man who had been diagnosed the night before.  An 18th case was later declared. Georgia reported its first case in the country, a Georgian native traveling from Iran. Germany reported five additional cases.  By the end of the day the overall total number of cases in the country had risen to 27. Greece confirmed its first case, a 38-year-old woman who had recently traveled to Italy. Hong Kong reported six new cases, including a 16-year-old boy and his 21-year-old sister who were both aboard  Diamond Princess , bringing the total to 91 cases. Italy confirmed 51 additional cases, bringing its total to 374. It also confirmed the 12th death from the virus.  In the evening, they declared 27 new cases  followed by an additional 54 cases, with two earlier cases declared false positives. Iran confirmed four more deaths, taking the total to 19. Another 44 cases were confirmed, bringing the total number to 139. Japan confirmed its second death from the virus.  It also reported five new confirmed cases in Nagoya. A third death was later confirmed. Kuwait confirmed that their total of confirmed cases had risen to 12 with one new case. Later that day, they confirmed the overall total had risen to 25. Lebanon confirmed its second case. North Macedonia confirmed its first case, a woman who had recently returned home from Italy. Norway confirmed its first case, a person who had returned from China. Pakistan confirmed its first case, a 22-year-old man from Sindh province who had traveled to Iran, and also confirmed a second case with no further details. Romania confirmed its first case. Russia confirmed three more cases, who were passengers on the cruise ship  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number to five. Singapore confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 93. Spain confirmed five more cases, including a man who was hospitalized in Seville after testing positive, bringing the total number to 12. This was the first confirmed case in the southern region of Andalusia.  Another case was later confirmed in the Canary Islands. South Korea confirmed 169 more cases, bringing the total number to 1,146.  It also recorded an additional death, increasing its total to 12. In the afternoon, the country reported 115 more infections, bringing the total number to 1,261. Sweden reported a new case, the second in the country. Taiwan confirmed an additional case, bringing its total to 32. Thailand confirmed three additional cases, bringing its total to 40 cases. The United States confirmed three new cases one being a domestic case in California with no travel history, and the other two being former passengers aboard  Diamond Princess bringing the total number to 60. Diamond Princess  saw 14 new confirmed cases, taking it to 705 cases aboard the ship. It is estimated that more passengers on the ship could be infected than previously thought. For the first time, a case was reimported back to China from another country; the patient traveled from Iran. 

27 February::WHO  Situation Report 38: Austria reported its third case, the first in Vienna. Canada confirmed the first human-to-human transmission in Toronto, the husband of the woman who had traveled to Iran, bringing the total cases in the country to 13.  The country later reported a presumptive case in Quebec. The patient had travel history to Iran. This presumptive case was the first case in Quebec, bringing the total number to 14. China reported through the National Health Commission 433 new cases and 29 new deaths across the mainland. Of those, 409 cases and 26 deaths were in Hubei province. Denmark confirmed its first case, a person who had recently returned from Italy. Estonia reported its first case, an Iranian man who had recently returned from Iran. France reported 20 new cases, raising the number of cases in the country to 38. Germany saw another case reported in North Rhine-Westphalia.  In the evening, it was reported that there were 14 new cases in the same state, bringing Germany's total to 40 cases.   The cases rose to 45 by the end of the day. Greece confirmed two more cases, the first patient's daughter and another woman in Athens, bringing the total to three cases. Hong Kong reported two additional cases, both women infected after visiting a Hong Kong temple at the center of a COVID-19 cluster. This took the total number of cases to 93. Iran reported that 22 people had now died amid 141 people infected by the virus.  The chairman of Iran's National Security Committee,  Mojtaba Zolnour , announced he had been infected.  Iran later announced an increase to 26 deaths and 245 cases.  The country's vice president for Women and Family Affairs  Masoumeh Ebtekar  also tested positive. Iraq reported a new case associated with traveling to Iran, the sixth in the country and the first in Baghdad.  A seventh case was confirmed in Kirkuk later in the day. Israel reported an additional case, a person who had traveled to Italy, bringing the total number to three. Italy reported that two more people had died, bringing the death toll to 14. The Civil Protection agency reported the number of confirmed cases had risen from 420 to 528.  Later in the day, it was announced that three more people had died, taking the death toll to 17, and the total confirmed cases had risen to 650.  At the end of the day, the total cases rose to 655.  Mayor Pietro Mazzocchi of  Borgonovo Val Tidone  was diagnosed with the virus. Japan reported 17 new cases. It confirmed a case involving a recovered patient being  reinfected  with COVID-19. The total number of local cases had increased to 186.  An eighth person died, a Japanese man in his 80s, who lived in the northernmost island of Hokkaido.  Additionally, Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  asked that all elementary, middle, and high schools shall be closed until late March. Kuwait confirmed the total cases in the country were 43, with all having recently traveled to Iran. Lebanon reported a third case with the person having traveled from Iran. Malaysia confirmed an additional case, a woman who had recently traveled to Japan, bringing the total to 23. That made it the first case to be imported from Japan. The Netherlands reported its first case, a person who had been skiing in Italy. Nigeria confirmed its first case, an Italian citizen who worked in Nigeria and returned from Milan. It was the first case of coronavirus in sub-Saharan Africa. Norway confirmed three additional cases, two in Oslo and one in B rum, taking the total to four cases.  Two returned from Italy and one from Iran. Oman reported an additional case, raising the country's total to five.  An additional case was confirmed later that day, who had traveled from Iran. San Marino confirmed its first case. Singapore confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 96. South Korea reported 334 new cases, bringing the total number to 1,595.  Later, 171 additional cases were confirmed, taking the total number to 1,766. Spain saw a new case reported in Valencia  and two more in Madrid.  A further case was reported in Barcelona.  By the early evening, the total number of confirmed cases had risen to 22.  In the evening, six additional cases were declared in Valencia. Sweden had five new cases confirmed, one in the Uppsala region,  three people in V stra G taland, and one in the Stockholm region. Switzerland reported more cases, with a total of six confirmed cases across five cantons.  By the end of the day, a total of eight cases had been detected. The United Arab Emirates reported the recovery of two patients, and six new cases, bringing the total number to 19.  It also saw two suspected cases attached to the UAE Tour, a cycling event, which resulted in the cancellation of the event. The United Kingdom confirmed two more cases, contracted in Italy and Tenerife, taking the total to 15 cases.  In the evening, a 16th case was confirmed, and the first case in Northern Ireland, someone who had come from Italy via Dublin. 

28 February::WHO  Situation Report 39: Australia confirmed one additional case, a former  Diamond Princess  passenger now in Western Australia, bringing the total number to 24. Azerbaijan confirmed its first case, a Russian national who recently returned from Iran. Bahrain announced three new cases, raising the total to 36.  An additional two cases were later confirmed, both having recently traveled from Iran, one being a Saudi Arabian national. Belarus confirmed its first case, a student from Iran. Canada reported two positive cases in Ontario. One of them had travel history to Iran, while the other had visited Egypt.  The total number of cases rose to 16. China confirmed an additional 327 new confirmed cases, of which 318 were in the province of Hubei. There were 44 deaths of which 41 were in Hubei, one in Xinjiang and two in Beijing. Croatia confirmed two new cases, one being the girlfriend of the first patient and the other the wife of the third patient, bringing the total number to five. Denmark confirmed an additional case, bringing the total number to two. Finland confirmed an additional case, taking it to three confirmed cases. France announced two new cases, bringing the total number to 40.  The total number of cases later rose to 57. Georgia confirmed a second case, a citizen who had returned from Italy. More than 18 people were reported to be in quarantine. Germany reported cases totaling  almost 60 , according to a Health Ministry official. Greece confirmed an additional case, who had recently traveled to Italy. This was the country's fourth case. Hong Kong confirmed an additional case, a patient from  Diamond Princess , bringing the total number to 94. Iceland confirmed its first case, a person who had returned from Italy. Iran confirmed 143 new cases and six more deaths, with a total of 388 cases and 32 deaths.  Four MP's had tested positive, an increase from the two who had already announced their cases. Iraq confirmed an eighth case, a woman who recently came back from Iran. Israel confirmed an additional case, the second in the country the wife of the previous person diagnosed.  Five additional cases were later confirmed, taking the total to seven. One of the new cases was an Israeli who had recovered in Japan, who was diagnosed again after returning. Italy reported that four more people had died, bringing the death toll to 21. The number of confirmed cases had risen from 650 (the day before) to 888. Japan announced an additional death, bringing the total to five.  They also confirmed 12 new cases in Hokkaido. Japan also later confirmed another death regarding a British native on board  Diamond Princess , marking the first foreign victim on the cruise ship. Kuwait announced two additional cases, taking its total to 45. Lebanon confirmed its fourth case, a Syrian man, the first case of local transmission. Lithuania confirmed its first case, a woman who returned from Italy. Malaysia confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 25. Mexico confirmed its first two cases, one in Mexico City and one in Culiac n.  Both cases were individuals who recently returned from a trip to Bergamo, Italy. Monaco saw the government confirm the first case in the principality. New Zealand confirmed its first case, an individual who had returned from Iran to Auckland earlier in the week. The Netherlands confirmed its second case. Norway confirmed two other cases, with the second having serious implications. First, it was confirmed that a person from Bergen, who returned from Italy, tested positive. Later, it was confirmed that a person working at Ullevaal Hospital in Oslo also tested positive, after having returned from Italy. According to standard recommendation, he was told to go to work, since he had no symptoms, and he had worked with a significant number of patients for a couple of days before testing positive. Norway now has six confirmed cases. Romania confirmed two new cases, both having recently returned from Italy. Singapore confirmed two more cases, bringing the total number to 98. Spain confirmed more cases, taking it to 32 cases with five in Madrid, eight in Comunidad Valenciana, six in the Canary Islands, six in Catalonia, one in the Balearic Islands, six in Andaluc a, one in Arag n, and two in Castilla y Le n. South Korea confirmed 256 new cases, bringing the total number of infected in the country to 2,022. Of the new cases, 182 were in Daegu.  There were three new deaths, raising the number to 16.  Later, the number of cases there shot up by 315, bringing the total number to 2,337. Sweden confirmed four more cases, raising the country's total to 11. Switzerland's cases increased to 15. Taiwan confirmed two additional cases, taking its total to 34. Thailand confirmed an additional case, taking the overall number to 41. The United Kingdom reported its 17th and 18th cases, in people who had traveled from Iran, and its 19th case and the first in Wales, being someone who had traveled from Northern Italy.  In the evening, the 20th case was confirmed, the first case of being passed on in the UK from an unknown source. The United States confirmed four more cases, including two former passengers of  Diamond Princess .  Washington state authorities later confirmed two additional presumptive cases, bringing its total to 66. One had recently returned from South Korea, and the other case was unrelated and locally acquired. SARS-CoV-2 was detected for the first time in tears and conjunctival secretions (pink eye) of a patient. This was only detected in one out of the 30 patients that were tested. The excerpt from the study stated,  In the study of this small sample, we used conjunctival test paper to obtain tears and conjunctival secretions of 30 patients for standard RT-PCR assay. Only one patient with conjunctivitis found viral RNA in his tear fluid and conjunctival secretion twice. 

29 February::WHO  Situation Report 40: Australia confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 25. Austria confirmed four new cases, bringing the total to 10. Azerbaijan reported two new cases, both recently returned from Iran. Bahrain confirmed three additional cases, all who had traveled to Iran, bringing the total number to 41. Brazil confirmed the second case, a 32-year-old man who arrived from Milan, Italy. Canada confirmed four new cases (three in Ontario) and one in  British Columbia , bringing the total to 20. China confirmed 427 new cases 423 of which were in Hubei province bringing the total number to 79,251. Deaths increased by 47, to a total of 2,835. Croatia confirmed its sixth case, a close relative of the third and fifth patients. Denmark confirmed its third case, a person recently returned from a trip to Munich, Germany, where he came into contact with someone who was later determined to have the virus. Ecuador confirmed its first case, a woman who recently returned from a trip to Spain. France confirmed 16 additional cases, bringing the total number to 73.  Additional cases were confirmed, taking the number to 100. Georgia confirmed one new case, taking the total number to three. Germany's confirmed cases increased to 66. Greece confirmed three new cases, two of which were close contacts of a previous confirmed case, the other had traveled to Italy. Iran confirmed 205 new cases, and nine new deaths, bringing the total to 593 infected and 43 dead. Iraq confirmed five new cases, bringing the total number to 13. Four of them were in Baghdad and the fifth was in Babil province. Ireland confirmed its first case, associated with travel to northern Italy. Italy confirmed 239 new cases and eight new deaths, bringing it to 1,128 cases and 29 deaths. Lebanon confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number of cases to seven. Luxembourg confirmed its first case. Mexico confirmed two more cases, one man in the State of Mexico who participated in the same trip to Bergamo, Italy, that the first two infected made,  and a woman in Coahuila who traveled to Milan, Italy, between January and February,  bringing the total to four. The Netherlands confirmed four additional cases, bringing the total to six.  A seventh case was later confirmed. Norway confirmed nine new cases, bringing the total to 15. Pakistan confirmed two mores cases, bringing its total to four. One is a person from Karachi who had recently traveled to Iran, and the other case was in the Federal Area. Qatar confirmed its first case, a Qatari national who had recently returned from Iran. Singapore confirmed four more cases, bringing the total number to 102. South Korea confirmed 594 more cases, bringing the total number to 2,931.  This later increased with another 219 cases declared, bringing the total number to 3,150. Another death was confirmed, bringing the total to 17.  The first reinfection case was also confirmed. Spain confirmed 26 more cases, bringing the total number to 58. Sweden reported two new cases, taking the total to 13. Switzerland confirmed three more cases, bringing the total number to 18. Taiwan confirmed five more cases, bringing the total number to 39. Thailand confirmed one more case, bringing the total number to 42. The United Kingdom confirmed three additional cases, taking the total to 23. The United States confirmed its first death, a man from  Washington  near the  Seattle  area.  The country also reported two more cases, bringing the total number to 68. 