18 July::From 18 July, local authorities will have the power to enforce local shutdowns. Johnson announces an extra  3bn for the  NHS in England  to help prepare for a possible second wave of COVID-19 over the coming winter. Johnson announces a pilot scheme for a return to spectator sports, with a view to a full return by 1 October. The  2020 World Snooker Championship  and the  Glorious Goodwood Festival  are among the first two sporting events to be part of the pilot.  A pilot scheme is also announced for a return to indoor performances with socially distanced audiences at theatres, music and performance venues, with a view to a full return in August. Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  calls for a review of the way COVID-19 deaths are recorded in England after  Public Health England  confirms it records deaths as COVID related even if the death occurs several months after someone has tested positive for the virus; the other Home Nations do not record a death as COVID related if it occurs more than 28 days after a positive test. Rochdale  introduces extra social distancing precautions to avoid full lockdown following a rise in COVID-19 cases in the area. 18 July – The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) (No. 3) Regulations 2020  come into force, giving local authorities in England new powers to close shops and outdoor public spaces, and to cancel events in order to control COVID-19. A pub in Manchester becomes one of the first venues to stage a live gig since as lockdown measures continue to be eased. 19 July – Concerns are raised about England's contact-tracing system as it emerges that at least 50  of the people identified as having had close contact with someone in Blackburn who has tested positive for COVID-19 have not been contacted. 20 July – Figures released by  Public Health England  show that  Blackburn with Darwen  is overtaking  Leicester  as England's COVID-19 hotspot, with 79.2 cases per 100,000 in the week up to 17 July. Cases have almost doubled from 63 to 118 in a week. 22 July – The UK government permits visits to care homes to resume in England, but recommends one constant visitor per resident, and gives local authorities and public health directors responsibility for giving the go-ahead to individual homes. Driving tests resume in England. 23 July – On the eve of the introduction of new regulations for the wearing of face coverings in England, the UK Government releases full guidelines on when and where they should be worn. A network of COVID walk-in test centres will be established throughout England, with a view to being fully operational by the end of October. Residents in  Blackburn  and  Luton  are told the latest round of lockdown easing will not be allowed in those towns due to a high number of COVID-19 cases. 24 July – The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Wearing of Face Coverings in a Relevant Place) (England) Regulations 2020  come into force, requiring members of the public to wear a face covering in most indoor shops, shopping centres, banks, post offices and public transport hubs. They must also be worn by anyone buying takeaway food or drink from an outlet, but may be removed by those eating in. Children under 11, and people with disabilities or certain health conditions that would make the wearing of a face covering difficult are exempt.  The new regulations are similar to  The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Wearing of Face Coverings on Public Transport) (England) Regulations 2020 , which came into force on 15 June 2020. The Football Association confirms that the 2020–21 English Premier League and Football League season will begin on 12 September. The list of countries from where travellers do not have to quarantine when arriving in England is updated, adding Estonia, Latvia, Slovakia, Slovenia and St Vincent and the Grenadines; travellers from Portugal must still isolate for 14 days. The UK government announces that 30 million people in England will be offered the flu vaccine over the coming winter. It is reported that, as a result of the pandemic and job losses, almost 1,000 people have applied to a restaurant in Manchester advertising a vacancy for a receptionist. 25 July – With the coming into force of  The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (No. 2) (England) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2020 , indoor gyms, swimming pools and other indoor sports facilities begin to reopen. Public Health England warns that being obese and overweight puts people at greater risk of severe illness or death as a result of COVID-19. The UK government announces  2.25m worth of emergency funding for small music venues in England, which will be shared by 150 venues. Following a rise in COVID-19 cases in Spain, and concerns of a second wave, the UK Government confirms that travellers returning to England from Spain will be required to quarantine for 14 days from 26 July. 26 July – 21 people have tested positive for COVID-19 at a caravan park in  Craven Arms , Shropshire, with health experts warning the number of cases will rise. Westminster Abbey  has warned it is set to make 20  of its staff redundant after losing as much as  12m in tourist revenue because of the lockdown. 27 July – A concrete-making plant involved in the construction of the  Hinkley Point  nuclear processing plant is closed by owners  Balfour Beatty  following an outbreak of COVID-19 at the site. 28 July – Oldham  introduces tougher restrictions to curb the virus after a spike in cases; residents are asked to refrain from having social visitors, keep two metres apart when outside, and those who are shielding are asked to continue to do so until 14 August, while care homes will not relax restrictions. Folk musician  Frank Turner  plays a gig to an audience of 200 at London's  Clapham Grand  where safety measures are trialled for the return of live music. But the venue's manager says the format is not economically viable as it would not allow venues to make enough money to cover operating costs. 30 July – Office for National Statistics  figures indicate that England had the highest number of excess deaths in Europe between the end of February and mid-June, and had the second highest peak in number of deaths behind Spain. Restrictions are placed on  Greater Manchester , and parts of East  Lancashire  and  Yorkshire  prohibiting separate households from meeting indoors following an  increasing rate of transmission  in those areas caused by people failing to adhere to social distancing rules. The restrictions take effect from midnight. 31 July – Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  postpones some lockdown easing measures scheduled to begin on 1 August for two weeks amid concerns about rising COVID-19 cases. Bowling alleys and casinos will remain closed until 15 August, while wedding receptions of up to 30 people are also moved back to that date. Trials of spectator sporting events are also paused.

08 August::From 8 August the wearing of face coverings in more indoor settings, such as cinemas and places of worship will become mandatory. The ONS household survey indicates COVID-19 cases in England are rising again, with an increase from 2,800 to 4,200 daily cases in the week of 20–26 July. Pubs, restaurants and hairdressers in Leicester are given permission to reopen from Monday 3 August.

