06 July::From 6 July they will be able to meet up outside with up to five other people and form a  support bubble  with another household. 23 June – Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  announces that social distancing rules for England will be relaxed from 4 July, with people required to stay a metre apart but advised to maintain two metres distance whenever possible. He also confirms that pubs, restaurants, hotels and hairdressers can reopen on the same day, but social distancing must be maintained. Spas, nail bars and gyms are among premises that must continue to remain closed. Two households can also meet up indoors from 4 July, and need not be exclusive to each other like the bubble system. Weddings with up to 30 guests will also be permitted. In a bid to assuage concerns from the fitness industry that gyms will not be opening on 4 July, Culture Secretary  Oliver Dowden  subsequently announces on Twitter that the government hopes to reopen gyms in mid-July. 25 June – The UK government announces plans to relax rules for England and Wales allowing pubs and restaurants to utilise outdoor spaces such as terraces, pavements and car parks, while outdoor markets and fetes will no longer need planning permission. Figures from  NHS Test and Trace  indicate that in its first three weeks of operation in excess of 100,000 people have been asked to self-isolate after being contacted by contact tracers, while the service has contacted three quarters of the people whose details have been supplied to it. The UK government publishes a five-stage plan for reopening theatres.  But it is quickly criticised by theatre unions as  meaningless  and  woeful  because it contains no provisions for investment in the performing arts. 26 June –  Merseyside Police  issue a dispersal order after fans of  Liverpool Football Club  gather for a second night of celebration after the team won the  Premier League  title the previous day. 28 June – Home Secretary  Priti Patel  confirms a  Sunday Times  report that the government is considering imposing a local lockdown on  Leicester , which has seen a spike in COVID-19 cases. Of the 2,494 cases reported in the city, 658 of them (around 25 ) occurred in the two weeks preceding 16 June. 29 June – Following a spike in COVID-19 cases in  Leicester , Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  announces the reintroduction of stricter lockdown measures for the city, including the closure of non-essential retailers from the following day, and the closure of schools from 2 July. People in Leicester are advised to stay at home as much as possible, while it is recommended that all but essential travel to, from and within the city should be avoided.  Of the 2,987 positive cases in Leicester since the pandemic began, 866 (29 ) were reported in the two weeks preceding 23 June,  while Hancock says Leicester accounted for  10  of all positive cases in the country over the past week .  Sir  Peter Soulsby , the  Mayor of Leicester  has criticises a lack of communication between the UK government and  Leicester City Council  which he describes as  intensely frustrating . The UK government publishes guidelines for weddings in England, which are permitted from 4 July. Up to thirty people can attend, but without singing and without a reception to follow the ceremony. The  England and Wales Cricket Board  confirms that the  2020 domestic first-class cricket season  will begin on 1 August. 30 June – England's exam regulator,  Ofqual , says that any GCSE or A Level student who is unhappy with the results they are given will be able to sit exams in all subjects in the autumn.  GCSE exams in Maths and English Language only will also be available in early 2021, if needed to cope with demand.

