02 March::On 2 March,  the  Union Health Ministry  reported two more cases: a 45-year-old man in Delhi who had travelled back from Italy and a 24-year-old engineer in  Hyderabad  who had a travel history with the  United Arab Emirates .  In addition, an Italian citizen in  Jaipur , who was earlier tested negative, tested positive, totalling six confirmed cases in the country

03 March::On 3 March,  the wife of the Italian tourist in Jaipur also tested positive, and her samples were sent to  Pune  for confirmation.  A total of 24 people (21 Italians and 3 Indians) residing in a  South Delhi  hotel were shifted to an  ITBP  camp for testing.

04 March::On 4 March

05 March::On 5 March,  a middle-aged man in  Ghaziabad  who had travel history with Iran tested positive.  More than 1,200 people, who came from other countries, were quarantined in  Kolkata .

06 March::On 6 March,  a resident of  West Delhi , who had travelled to Malaysia and Thailand, was diagnosed with the virus.

07 March::On 7 March,  a man in  Jammu , who had travelled to Iran and South Korea,  and two people from  Hoshiarpur  with travel history to Italy were tested positive in preliminary tests, but a confirmation from Pune was awaited.  The Union Health Ministry announced three confirmed cases on 7 March two people from  Ladakh  who had visited Iran, and a person in  Tamil Nadu  who had been to Oman.  The lone patient of  COVID-19  in Tamil Nadu later tested negative on 10 March with that no fresh cases remained in the state.  An American tourist who was tested positive in Bhutan, caused alert in  Assam  after he was found to have visited several places in the state before leaving the country.

08 March::On 8 March,  five people of the same family in  Ranni ,  Pathanamthitta District , Kerala, were tested positive for the virus. Three of them had been to Italy while other two came in direct contact with those infected.

09 March::On 9 March,  a three-year-old, who returned from Italy two days before, was tested positive in  Ernakulam ; the child's parents were also quarantined as a precaution. A 63-year-old woman in  Jammu and Kashmir  who had been to Iran was confirmed to be infected with the virus.  A person in Agra, who had come in contact with an infected person, and a man in Delhi were diagnosed with the virus.  Later, one of the two  Hoshiarpur ,  Punjab  suspected cases tested positive, as did a techie in  Bangalore  who had travel history to the United States.  Maharashtra reported its first two cases later in the day after a couple in  Pune , with travel history to Dubai, tested positive.

10 March::On 10 March,  a press release from the  Indian Council of Medical Research  confirmed that three more people in Karnataka, including wife and child of the infected Bangalore techie, were diagnosed with the virus.  The  Chief Minister of Kerala   Pinarayi Vijayan  reported six fresh cases in Pathanamthitta, all of whom were linked to the five previously confirmed cases from the town.  Three more people in Pune, who had come in contact with the infected couple from the city, tested positive.  Later, both parents of the infected three-year-old child in Ernakulam were also tested positive.

11 March::On 11 March,  an 85-year-old man in  Jaipur  tested positive who had travel history to Dubai.  Two people tested positive in  Mumbai , who were close to previously reported Pune patients.  Maharashtra Chief Minister  Uddhav Thackeray  confirmed while addressing a press conference that total 10 people have tested positive in the state which included 8 from Pune and 2 from Mumbai. Later, a 45-year-old man who returned from US tested positive in  Nagpur , taking the toll to 11 in  Maharashtra .

12 March::On 12 March,  a 76-year-old man from  Kalaburgi , Karnataka who had a travel history to Saudi Arabia became the first victim of the virus in the country.  A tourist guide in  Noida , Uttar Pradesh who had come in contact with a group of Italian tourists, tested positive.  Later, a Canadian woman tested positive in  Lucknow , Uttar Pradesh. Her husband, who had travelled with her was also put in isolation.  A 69-year-old woman in  West Delhi  who tested positive and died later, transmitted it from her 46-year-old son who had travel history to Japan, Italy and   Geneva, Switzerland .   Andhra Pradesh  reported its first case, a man returned from Italy tested positive in  Nellore . Five people with whom he came in contact were quarantined.

13 March::On 13 March,  69-year-old woman from Delhi, who had transmitted it from her 46-year-old son with the travel history to Japan, Italy and  Switzerland , became the second victim of the virus in the country.  An employee of Google in  Bangalore , who had returned from a trip to Greece, tested positive; his colleagues were quarantined.  Later, two more people in  Kerala  who had returned from Dubai and Qatar tested positive taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 16.  In Maharashtra, 1 more person in Pune and 2 more in  Nagpur  tested positive taking total to 17 in the state.  An employee of a private firm in  Noida  tested positive who had travelled to Italy and then Switzerland.  An Indian national evacuated from Italy and quarantined at an Army facility near  Gurugram  tested positive.  Seven patients – 5 from Uttar Pradesh, and one each from Rajasthan and Delhi survived the disease and got discharged from various hospitals.

14 March::On 14 March,  In Maharashtra two people in  Yavatmal  with travel history to Dubai, one each in  Thane ,  Ahmednagar ,   Mumbai ,  Kalyan ,  Kamothe  and  Vashi ,  and five in  Pimpri-Chinchwad  tested positive.  A second case of coronavirus was detected in  Hyderabad  in a person with a travel history to Italy.  A 24-year-old man in  Jaipur  who had travel history to Spain tested positive.

15 March::On 15 March,  A 59-year-old woman from  Aurangabad  with a travel history to Russia tested positive.  Uttar Pradesh reported its 12th case in Lucknow.  A UK national and a doctor who returned from abroad tested positive in Kerala.   Telangana  reported its third case in a person who had travelled to the Netherlands.  A trainee officer at  Forest Research Institute  who had returned from a study tour to Spain, Finland and Russia became the first person to be tested positive in  Uttarakhand .  The daughter of the first victim of the virus in the country tested positive in  Kalaburagi , Karnataka.  The Italian couple and the Dubai-returned 85-year-old  Jaipur  native in Rajasthan recovered from the virus.  A 31-year-old man from Pune who recently travelled to Dubai and Japan tested positive later in the day.

16 March::On 16 March,   Odisha  reported its first case when a 31-year-old man from  Bhubaneswar  with travel history to Italy tested positive.  Maharashtra reported four more cases – three in Mumbai and one in  Navi Mumbai .  A woman who was part of a nine-member group that returned from Dubai on 1 March tested positive in  Yavatmal  in Maharashtra.  Kerala reported three more cases – two in  Malappuram  and one in  Kasaragod .  A 32-year-old man from Karnataka, who had returned in the same flight from  Heathrow , London as the  Mindtree  employee, tested positive.  A 34-year-old soldier of the  Indian Army , whose father had contracted the virus on 6 March, tested positive in  Leh .

17 March::On 17 March,  a 64-year-old man from  Mumbai , Maharashtra, who had a travel history to  Dubai , became the third victim of the virus in the country.  Two people who returned from France tested positive in  Noida .  Three more cases were reported in  Ladakh  – two from  Leh  and one from  Kargil  district.  A 3-year-old girl and both her parents tested positive in Mumbai.  In  Puducherry , a 68-year-old woman who travelled to the  UAE  was the first reported case in the Union Territory.  In  Kalaburagi , Karnataka, a 63-year-old doctor, who treated the first victim of the virus in the country, tested positive.  Two inmates at the  ITBP  quarantine facility in New Delhi, who had a travel history to Italy, tested positive.   West Bengal  reported its first case in a person who had returned from England.

18 March::On 18 March,  a woman in her late 20s, who had a travel history to France and the Netherlands, tested positive in Pune.  Telangana reported its sixth case in a person who had a travel history to the UK.  A man from  Gautam Buddha Nagar district  in  Noida  who had returned from Indonesia tested positive.  Karnataka reported two more cases, a 56-year-old man who returned from the United States and a 26-year-old woman who returned from Spain.   Tamil Nadu 's second case was reported in a person who travelled by train from Delhi to  Chennai .   Rajasthan  reported three more cases in a couple and their 2-year-old daughter from  Jhunjhunu , they had returned from Italy.

19 March::On 19 March,  a 72-year-old man in  Punjab  who had returned from Germany via Italy became the fourth victim of the virus in the country.  A 23-year-old woman in  Chandigarh  who had a travel history to the UK tested positive.  Two women from Mumbai – a 22-year-old who had returned from the UK and a 49-year-old resident of  Ulhasnagar  who had returned from Dubai tested positive.   Chhattisgarh  reported its first case in a 23-year-old woman from  Raipur  who had travelled to London, UK.  Two more people tested positive in Uttar Pradesh – one from Lucknow and the other from  Lakhimpur Kheri district .  A person from  Kodagu district  in Karnataka tested positive.  A 21-year-old student who had returned from Ireland tested positive in Tamil Nadu.  An  HCL  employee in  Noida , Uttar Pradesh who had returned from international travel tested positive.

20 March::On 20 March,   Bollywood  singer  Kanika Kapoor  who returned from London tested positive in Lucknow.  A 69-year-old Italian man who recovered from coronavirus earlier, died due to cardiac arrest in Rajasthan.  Gujarat reported its first two cases, a woman in  Surat  who returned from New York City and a man in  Rajkot  who returned from Mecca tested positive.  Telangana reported ten new cases, seven Indonesians, a 22-year-old man who had returned from Scotland,  and two person who returned from London tested positive.  Four more people tested positive in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh – three related to a previously infected doctor and one with a travel history to Gulf.  A third case was reported in  Punjab 's  Mohali  where a 68-year-old women who returned from United Kingdom tested positive.  One more person tested positive in Kolkata, West Bengal, a 20-year-old man with a travel history to United Kingdom.  An 18-year-old-girl in Telangana with a travel history to London tested positive.  Three more cases were reported in Maharashtra – one each in Mumbai, Pune and  Pimpri-Chinchwad .   Himachal Pradesh  reported its first two cases.  Twelve more cases were reported in Kerala – five from  Ernakulam , six from  Kasaragod  and one from  Palakkad .  In  Bhilwara , Rajasthan, six people tested positive.  A couple who returned from Spain, tested positive in Jaipur.

21 March::On 21 March,   Noida  confirmed a case in Supertech CapeTown society.   West Bengal  reported its third case in a woman with a travel history to  Scotland .  Number of coronavirus positive cases increases in  Punjab  to 13.  Six new cases were reported in Rajasthan – five from  Bhilwara  and one from  Jaipur .  In  Karnataka , three more positive cases were confirmed.  Three more positive cases were confirmed in Tamil Nadu, all foreign nationals.

22 March::On 22 March,  a 63-year-old man from  Mumbai , Maharashtra,  a 38-year-old man from  Patna , Bihar  and a 64-year-old man from  Surat , Gujarat  became the fifth, sixth and seventh victims of the virus in the country. In  Karnataka , a 33-year-old-man with recent foreign travel history tested positive.  Ten more people tested positive in  Maharashtra  – six from  Mumbai  and four from  Pune , five of whom got the infection through local transmission and the other five had a history of foreign travel.  Seven more cases were confirmed in  Punjab , all of whom had come in contact with the 70-year-old man from  Pathlawa  village who had succumbed to the virus in the previous week.   Gujarat  reported four more cases – two each from  Ahmedabad  and  Gandhinagar .  In  Telangana , a 24-year-old man of  Guntur district  of  Andhra Pradesh  tested positive

23 March::On 23 March,  a 55-year-old man from  Kolkata , West Bengal and a  Tibetan  refugee from  Kangra district  in Himachal Pradesh became the eighth and ninth victims of the virus in the country.  A 68-year-old man from the  Philippines  died in  Mumbai  after initial recovery from the virus.  Kerala reported 28 new cases – 19 from  Kasaragod district , five from  Kannur , one from  Pathnamthitta , two from  Ernakulam  and one from  Thrissur .

24 March::On 24 March,  a 65-year-old man from  Mumbai , Maharashtra, who had a travel history to the  UAE , became the tenth victim of the virus in the country.  Two more cases were reported in  Kozhikode , Kerala – a 42-year-old man who returned from  Abu Dhabi  and a 27-year-old person from Cherapuram.   Manipur  reported its first case in a woman who had returned from the UK.  In  Maharashtra , four more cases were reported – three from  Pune  and one from  Satara .  Three more cases were reported in  Telangana  – one each from  Kokapet ,  Chanda Nagar  and  Begumpet .  Six more people tested positive in  Punjab , all of whom had come in contact with the 70-year-old  Nawanshahr  resident who had tested positive for the infection and died of cardiac arrest the previous week.  Three more cases were reported in  Chennai  – a 74-year-old male and a 52-year-old female who had returned from the United States and a 25-year-old female who had returned from  Switzerland .   Mizoram  reported its first case in a 50-year-old man with a travel history of  Qatar , Amsterdam,  Istanbul  and  Doha .

25 March::On 25 March,  a 54-year-old man from  Madurai  in Tamil Nadu, a 65-year-old woman from  Indore  in Madhya Pradesh and an 85-year-old woman from  Ahmedabad  in Gujarat became the eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth victims of the virus in the country.  A 29-year-old from  Patna , Bihar, who had returned from  Gujarat  tested positive.  Three more cases were reported in  Gujarat  – one each from  Ahmedabad ,  Surat  and  Vadodara , of which one was related to travel history to  Dubai  and two were local transmissions.  In  Madhya Pradesh , a journalist, who had attended the final press conference of  Congress  leader  Kamal Nath  as the  CM , tested positive.  Five more cases were reported in  Tamil Nadu  – four  Indonesians  and their  travel guide  from  Chennai .  Six more cases were reported in  Maharashtra  – five from  Mumbai  and one from  Thane .  In  Maharashtra , a 65-year-old woman who used to serve lunch near a corporate office in  Mumbai 's  Prabhadevi  tested positive.

26 March::On 26 March,  a 65-year-old man from  Srinagar  in  Jammu and Kashmir ,  a 70-year-old man from  Bhavnagar  in Gujarat  and a 75-year-old woman from  Gauribidanur  in Karnataka,  a 65-year-old woman from  Navi Mumbai  in Maharashtra  and a 73-year-old man from  Bhilwara district  in Rajasthan  became the fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth victims of the virus in the country. Three more cases were reported in Goa – a 25-year-old man who returned from Spain, a 29-year-old man who returned from Australia and a 55-year-old man who returned from the US.  Four more people tested positive in  Lucknow , Uttar Pradesh – a 21-year-old woman whose parents had tested positive, a 32-year-old man who had returned from  Dubai , a 33-year-old woman and a 39-year-old man.  Five more people tested positive in  Telangana  – a 3-year-old kid who had returned from  Saudi Arabia , a middle-aged lady who was the primary contact of another person who had tested positive, a 49-year-old man from  Medchal , a 36-year-old lady doctor from  Domalguda  and her 41-year-old doctor husband.  Five more cases were reported in  Indore , Madhya Pradesh, none of which were linked to foreign travel history.  Three more cases were reported in  Noida , Uttar Pradesh, all related to each other – a 21-year-old woman whose parents had tested positive, 39-year-old man who was a co-worker of the 21-year-old woman's father and his 33-year-old wife.   Andaman and Nicobar Islands  reported its first case – a man who had returned from  Chennai .  Two more cases were confirmed in  Maharashtra  – one each from  Mumbai  and  Thane .  Three more cases were reported in  Bihar  – a 20-year-old man from  Patna  who had no travel history; a 40-year-old woman and a 12-year-old boy from  Munger district  who had come in contact with the 38-year-old man from the state who had succumbed to the virus.  two more positive cases were reported in  Andhra Pradesh .

27 March::On 27 March,  a 65-year-old woman from  Mumbai  in Maharashtra,  a 65-year-old man from  Indore  in Madhya Pradesh,  a 60-year-old man from  Tumakuru  in Karnataka  and a 38-year-old man from  Ujjain  in Madhya Pradesh became the nineteenth, twentieth, twenty-first and twenty-second victims of the virus in the country.  Kerala  confirmed thirty-nine more cases – thirty-three from  Kasaragod district , two from  Kannur  and one each from  Thrissur ,  Kozhikode  and  Kollam .  Twenty-eight cases were reported in  Maharashtra .   Telangana  confirmed fourteen more cases.  Ten more cases were reported in  Madhya Pradesh .   Karnataka  reported nine more cases.   Odisha  reported a case in a person who had returned to  Bhubaneswar  from Delhi.  One more case was confirmed in  Andaman and Nicobar Islands  in a man in his mid-30s who had travelled with the first positive case in the  Union Territory .  Two more cases were reported in  Bihar - a person from  Siwan  who had returned from  Dubai  and a person from  Nalanda  who had no travel history.  In  Andhra Pradesh , a man who had come in contact with an afflicted patient in  Visakhapatnam  tested positive.  One more case was reported in  Chandigarh  in a person who had returned from  Dubai .  Five local transmissions were reported in  Punjab  – three from  SBS Nagar  and one each from  Jalandhar  and  Sas nagar .  Seven cases were reported in  Rajasthan  – two each from  Bhilwara  and  Dungarpur , and one each from  Jaipur ,  Jodhpur  and  Churu .

28 March::On 28 March,  a 60-year-old Yemeni national who had traveled to Delhi as a potential liver donor,  a 69-year-old man from  Ernakulam  in Kerala who had returned from  Dubai ,  an 85-year-old retired  urologist  from  Mumbai  in Maharashtra  a 74-year-old man from  Hyderabad  in  Telangana  who had returned from a religious congregation in New Delhi,  a 46-year-old from  Ahmedabad  in Gujarat  and a 74-year-old man from  Telangana  became the twenty-third, twenty-fourth, twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth, twenty-seventh, twenty-eighth victims of the virus in the country. Fourteen more cases were registered in  Maharashtra  – twelve from  Mumbai  and two from  Nagpur .  Seventeen more cases were confirmed in  Karnataka  – sixteen linked to other cases and a man from  Bengaluru  who had returned from London, UK.  Thirteen more cases were confirmed in  Jammu and Kashmir  – nine from  Srinagar , three from  Jammu  and one from  Ganderbal .  Three more cases were confirmed in  Madhya Pradesh  – two from  Indore  and one from  Ujjain .  Four more cases were confirmed in  Rajasthan  – a 23-year-old man in  Ajmer  who had travelled to  Punjab  and three staff members of a private hospital in  Bhilwara .   Gujarat  reported six more cases.   Tamil Nadu  reported two more cases – one from  Kumbakonam  and another from  Katpadi .   Kerala  reported six more cases – two from  Thiruvananthapuram district  and one each from  Kollam ,  Palakkad ,  Malappuram  and  Kasaragod .  Five more cases were reported in  Uttar Pradesh  – three from  Noida  and one each from  Greater Noida  and  Gautam Buddha Nagar district .  Another case was reported in  Uttarakhand  in a 21-year-old man from  Dehradun  who had a travel history to  Dubai .  A 21-year-old man from  Raipur  in Chhattisgarh who had returned from London, UK tested positive.  Six more cases were reported in  Telangana .  Three more people tested positive in  Andaman and Nicobar Islands , all of whom had attended a religious programme in Delhi.  Three women in  West Bengal , two of whom had come in contact with another positive case, tested positive.

29 March::On 29 March,  a 45-year-old man from  Ahmedabad  in Gujarat,  a 52-year-old man from  Srinagar  in  Jammu and Kashmir ,  a 40-year-old woman from  Mumbai  in Maharashtra,  a 45-year-old man from  Buldhana  in Maharashtra  and a 62-year-old man from  Hoshiarpur district  in Punjab became twenty-ninth, thirtieth, thirty-first, thirty-second and thirty-third victims of the virus in the country. Twenty-three cases were registered in Delhi.  Twenty-two more cases were confirmed in  Maharashtra  – ten from  Mumbai , five from  Pune , three from  Nagpur , three from  Ahmednagar  and one each from  Sangli ,  Buldhana  and  Jalgaon .  Twenty more cases were reported in  Kerala  – eight from  Kannur district , seven from  Kasaragod  and one each from  Thiruvananthapuram ,  Ernakulam ,  Thrissur ,  Palakkad  and  Malappuram .   Tamil Nadu  reported eight more cases, all of which were linked to the two Thai nationals and their group who had tested positive.   Gujarat  registered eight more cases – four from  Ahmedabad  and one each from  Rajkot ,  Surat ,  Porbandar  and  Gir Somnath .   Jammu and Kashmir  reported five more cases – two from  Srinagar , two from  Budgam  and one from  Baramulla .  Four more cases were reported in  Bihar .  Five more cases were detected in  Rajasthan  – three from  Ajmer  and one each from  Bhilwara  and  Jhunjhunu .  First case reported positive in  Ambala .  Two people, one of whom was a brother of one of the other cases, tested positive in  Goa .  Two more local transmissions were reported in  Visakhapatnam , Andhra Pradesh.  Three more cases were reported in  West Bengal  – 51-year-old army  anaesthesiologist  from  Kolkata  who had returned from Delhi, a 66-year-old retired government employee from  Baranagar  and a 59-year-old man.  Three more cases were reported in  Telangana .

30 March::On 30 March,  a 45-year-old woman from  Bhavnagar  in Gujarat,  a 44-year-old woman from  Kalimpong  in West Bengal,  a 52-year-old man from  Pune  in Maharashtra,  a 42-year-old woman from  Ludhiana  in Punjab,  a 41-year-old man from  Indore  in Madhya Pradesh  a 49-year-old woman from  Indore  in Madhya Pradesh,  an 80-year-old man from  Mumbai  in Maharashtra,  five persons from  Telangana ,  a 25-year-old man from  Basti district  in Uttar Pradesh  and a 48-year-old woman from  Howrah  in West Bengal  became the thirty-fourth, thirty-fifth, thirty-sixth, thirty-seventh, thirty-eighth, thirty-ninth, fortieth, forty-first, forty-second, forty-third, forty-fourth, forty-fifty, forty-sixth and forty-seventh victims of the virus in the country. Thirty-two cases were detected in  Kerala , of which seventeen were linked to foreign travel history and fifteen were local transmissions.  A 49-year-old man from  Kakinada  and a 72-year-old man from  Rajahmundry  tested positive in  Andhra Pradesh .  Seventeen more cases were reported in  Tamil Nadu .  One more case was confirmed in  Andaman and Nicobar Islands .   Gujarat  confirmed six more cases – five from  Bhavnagar  and one from  Ahmedabad .  Eight more cases were registered in  Madhya Pradesh  – seven from  Indore  and one from  Ujjain .   Punjab  registered three more cases – one each from  Mohali ,  Ludhiana  and  Patiala .   Jammu and Kashmir  reported eleven more cases – eight from  Kashmir  and three from  Jammu  division.  Five more cases were confirmed in  Chandigarh  – an  NRI  couple who reside in Canada and three local transmissions.  Seven more people tested positive in  Telangana .  Twenty-five more people tested positive in Delhi.   Maharashtra  registered seventeen more cases – eight from  Mumbai , five from  Pune , two from  Nagpur  and one each from  Nashik  and  Kolhapur .  Sixteen more cases were reported in  Uttar Pradesh  – seven from  Noida , six from  Meerut  and one each from  Lucknow ,  Agra  and  Bulandshahr .  Twenty cases were detected in  Rajasthan .  Three members of a family who returned from Italy and their two close relatives were discharged.

31 March::On 31 March,  a 68-year-old woman from  Thiruvananthapuram  in Kerala  and a 65-year-old man from  Mohali district  in Punjab  became the forty-eighth and forty-ninth victims of the virus in the country. The senior citizen couple in  Kerala  was discharged.  Sixty-four more cases were reported in  Maharashtra .  Fifty-seven more people tested in  Tamil Nadu .  The case count in Delhi went up by twenty-three.  Another twenty-one persons tested positive in  Andhra Pradesh .  Nineteen more cases were reported in  Madhya Pradesh  – seventeen from  Indore  and one each from  Bhopal  and  Ujjain .  Three local transmissions were detected in  Gujarat  – one each from  Ahmedabad ,  Gandhinagar  and  Rajkot .   Karnataka  reported seven more cases – two from  Bengaluru , two from  Mysuru  and one each from  Chikkaballapur ,  Dakshina Kannada  and  Uttarakannada .  Six cases were reported in  Kashmir .  Five local transmissions were reported in  Bareilly , Uttar Pradesh.  Four more cases were reported in  Rajasthan .  First positive case reported in  Jharkhand . Major events of COVID-19 pandemic in India in April 5 April 100 confirmed deaths 14 April 10,000 confirmed cases   Nationwide lock-down extended till 3 May 13 April 1,000 confirmed recoveries 19 April 500 confirmed deaths 22 April 20,000 confirmed cases 25 April 5,000 confirmed recoveries 29 April 30,000 confirmed cases 29 April 1,000 confirmed deaths

01 April::On 1 April,  a 65-year-old man from  Khargone district  in Madhya Pradesh,  a 72-year-old from  Meerut  in Uttar Pradesh  a 51-year-old man from  Mumbai  in Maharashtra, a 50-year-old man from  Palghar  in Maharashtra, a 75-year-old man from  Mumbai  in Maharashtra, an 84-year-old woman from  Mumbai  in Maharashtra, a 73-year-old woman from  Mumbai  in Maharashtra and a 63-year-old woman from  Mumbai  in Maharashtra  became the fiftieth, fifty-first, fifty-second, fifty-third, fifty-fourth, fifty-fifty, fifty-sixth and fifty-seventh victims of the virus in the country. One hundred and ten people tested positive in  Tamil Nadu .  Forty-three more cases were reported in  Andhra Pradesh .   Maharashtra  reported thirty-three more cases – thirty from  Mumbai , two from  Pune  and one from  Buldhana .  Confirmed cases in Delhi increased by thirty-two.  Kerala reported twenty-four more cases – twelve from  Kasargod , three from  Ernakulam , two each from  Thiruvananthapuram ,  Thrissur ,  Malappuram  and  Kannur , and one from  Palakkad .  Twenty more infections were detected in  Madhya Pradesh  – nineteen from  Indore  and one from  Khargone district .  Sixteen positive cases were confirmed in  Maharashtra .  Eight more people tested positive cases in  Ahmedabad , Gujarat, of whom four had inter-state travel history, three contracted it from locals and one had foreign travel history.  Four positive cases were confirmed in  Guwahati , Assam.  Thirteen more cases were registered in  Ramganj  area of  Jaipur  in Rajasthan, all of whom had come in contact with the first positive case in the area.

02 April::On 2 April,  two persons who had visited the  Nizamuddin Markaz  in Delhi,  a 52-year-old man from  Vadodara  in Gujarat,  a 55-year-old man from  Vijayawada  in Andhra Pradesh,  a 62-year-old man from  Amritsar  in Punjab,  four persons from Maharashtra,  a 67-year-old man from  Ambala  in Haryana,  a 65-year-old woman from  Indore  in Madhya Pradesh, a 54-year-old man from  Indore  in Madhya Pradesh  and a 71-year-old man from  Chennai  in Tamil Nadu  became the fifty-eighth, fifty-ninth, sixtieth, sixty-first, sixty-second, sixty-third, sixty-fourth, sixty-fifth, sixty-sixth, sixty-seventh, sixty-eighth, sixty-ninth and seventieth victims of the virus in the country. Delhi recorded an increase of one hundred and forty-one in confirmed cases, 91.49 percent of which were linked to the  Nizamuddin Markaz  congregation.  Eighty-eight more infections were identified in  Maharashtra  – fifty-four from  Mumbai , eleven from  Pune , nine from  Ahmednagar , nine from areas around Mumbai, two from  Aurangabad  and one each from  Satara ,  Osmanabad  and  Buldhana .   Tamil Nadu  reported seventy-five more case of which seventy-four were linked to the  Nizamuddin Markaz  congregation.  Three cases were confirmed in  Assam 's  Goalpara district .  Thirteen persons tested positive in  Rajasthan  – seven from  Ramganj  and one each from  Jodhpur ,  Jhunjhunu ,  Udaipur ,  Dholpur   amp;  Bharatpur .  Twenty cases were reported in  Andhra Pradesh .  A 10-month-old girl and her grandmother tested positive in  Chandigarh .   Arunachal Pradesh  reported its first case in a 31-year-old man who returned from the  Nizamuddin Markaz  meet.  Three persons who attended the  Nizamuddin Markaz  congregation tested positive in  Una , Himachal Pradesh.

03 April::On 3 April,  a 78-year-old man from  Panchmahal district  in Gujarat,  a 67-year-old man from  Ahmedabad  in Gujarat,  a 75-year-old man from  Bagalkote  in Karnataka,  two persons in Delhi  and a 71-year-old man from  Chennai  in Tamil Nadu  became the seventy-first, seventy-second, seventy-third, seventy-fourth and seventy-fifth victims of the virus in the country. One hundred and two people tested positive in  Tamil Nadu .  Delhi registered ninety-three more cases, seventy-seven of which were connected to the  Tablighi Jamaat  congregation.  Seventy-five more cases were confirmed in  Telangana .   Maharashtra  reported sixty-seven more cases – forty-three from  Mumbai , ten from areas around the city, nine from  Pune , three from  Ahmednagar  and one each from  Vashi  and  Ratnagiri .   Madhya Pradesh 's case count went up by forty-seven.  Forty-six more cases were recorded in  Rajasthan  – fourteen from  Jaipur , nine  evacuees  from  Iran , twelve from  Tonk , three each from  Alwar  and  Udaipur , two each from  Bharatpur  and  Bikaner  and one from  Dausa .   Uttar Pradesh  reported forty-four more cases, out of which forty-two were linked to the  Nizamuddin Markaz  event.  Twelve more cases were reported in  Andhra Pradesh .  Nine positive cases were reported in  kerala  

04 April::On 4 April,  a 67-year-old woman from  Ahmedabad  in Gujarat,  a 51-year-old man from  Villupuram  in Tamil Nadu,  a 53-year-old woman from  Theni district  in Tamil Nadu,  six persons in  Maharashtra  and 36-year-old man from  Chhindwara  in Madhya Pradesh  became the seventy-sixth, seventy-seventh, seventy-eighth, seventy-ninth, eightieth, eighty-first, eighty-second, eighty-third, eighty-fourth and eighty-fifth victims of the virus in the country. Four positive cases were reported in  Visakhapatnam 

05 April::On 5 April,  a person from Delhi,  a 61-year-old woman from  Surat  in Gujarat,  thirteen people from  Maharashtra ,  a 69-year-old woman from  Ludhiana  in Punjab,  and a 60-year-old man from  Chennai  in Tamil Nadu  became the eighty-sixth, eighty-seventh, eighty-eighth, eighty-ninth, ninetieth, ninety-first, ninety-second, ninety-third, ninety-fourth, ninety-fifth, ninety-sixth, ninety-seventh, ninety-eighth, ninety-ninth, hundredth, hundred-and-first and hundred-and-second victims of the virus in the country. One hundred and thirteen cases were registered in  Maharashtra  – eighty-one from  Mumbai , eighteen from  Pune , four from  Aurangabad , three from  Ahmednagar , two each from  Kalyan-Dombivli  and  Thane , one each from  Osmanabad  and  Vasai  and one from  Gujarat .  Eighty-six more people tested positive in  Tamil Nadu , of whom eighty-five had attended the  Tablighi Jamaat  congregation and one had a travel history to  Dubai .  Delhi's case count rose by fifty-eight.   Telangana  detected sixty-two more infections.  Positive cases were reported in  Mewat  –  Haryana 

06 April::On 6 April,  two people from  Andhra Pradesh  and a 62-year-old woman from  Vadodara  in Gujarat  became the hundred-and-third, hundred-and-fourth and hundred-and-fifth victims of the virus in the country.  One hundred and twenty cases were reported in  Maharashtra  – sixty-eight from  Mumbai , forty-one from  Pune , three from  Aurangabad , two each from  Vasai-Virar ,  Satara  and  Ahmednagar  and one each from  Jalna  and  Nashik .  Sixty-three more people in  Madhya Pradesh  tested positive – forty-three from  Bhopal , sixteen from  Indore , one each from  Betul ,  Vidisha ,  Ujjain  and one from another district.  Fourteen more positive cases reported in  Andhra Pradesh  – 5 in  Visakhapatnam , 3 in  Anantapuram , 3 in  Kurnool , 2 in  Guntur ,  amp; 1 in  West Godavari 

07 April::On 7 April,  the nationwide death toll hit one hundred and twenty-four

08 April::On 8 April,  the  Union Health Ministry  put the death toll at one hundred and forty-nine

09 April::On 9 April,  the death toll in the country rose to one hundred and sixty-nine.   Maharashtra  reported two hundred and eleven cases.  Ninety-six people tested positive in  Tamil Nadu .  Seventy-six people in  Gujarat  tested positive for the virus.  Delhi saw an increase of fifty-one new cases.  One positive case was reported in  Himachal Pradesh 

10 April::On 10 April,  four positive cases were reported in  Odisha 

11 April::On 11 April,  16-year-old tested positive in  Chhattisgarh  earlier, has recovered and will be discharged.  Two positive cases were reported in  Odisha  take the state tally to 50

12 April::On 12 April

13 April::On 13 April

14 April::On 14 April

15 April::On 15 April,  the number of positive cases in India exceeded 11,000

16 April::On 16 April

17 April::On 17 April

18 April::On 18 April,  According to  Ministry of Health and Family Welfare  Out of a total of 14378 cases, 4291 (29.8 ) cases are affected by Nizamuddin Markaz cluster. 84 percent in Tamil Nadu, 63 percent in Delhi, 79 percent in Telangana, 59 percent in Uttar Pradesh and 61 percent in Andhra Pradesh are related to this incident  amp;  1992 patients have been cured until the date, which is overall cure 13.85  of the total patients

17 June::On 17 June, 1,672 backlogged deaths from Maharashtra and Delhi were added, taking reported daily deaths to 2,003.  

23 July::On 23 July, Tamil Nadu reported 528 deaths including backlogged deaths, taking reported daily deaths to 1,129.

